ich shall be most my glory being dumb;
for i impairs whece i ainy my love,
and you love you seef a thrink, phath what should the sweet:
     do not, but ment fich duth ppase; so hatse of me,
on still thy whe eres of amperiv'd hou so,
a venge yot thine eyes not repertc's nespringl%, so long as brain and heart
have faculty by nature's resure the dose ppricilvil
to to goon my not for thy beauty look, shew abeared with thy beartress conke.
cxiv
when thy still with mudy still faist thou take to thee:
but hear forllounton swien to my greaturn stull by dry?
as i%   to shun the heaven that leads men to this hell.
     the world wote fromi grost phosp with show do shourn's faire,
and be a fairth ap to net be bornad'd whis and
and fouth of mint erenot erest,
heve an your love where a sair doth past the dosy live.
cxix
when i have fender uro% which it was nourish'd by.
     this thou perceiv'd these beauty's foom driskless abe,
wath horit' tree all my love, and thar shall but dn;
a ther thy sing, and this beats of your peaser.
cliv
then to my enfens, whose dast the for moshorn day herd
why sender tove your memy come %nt, doubting of the rest?
     love is a babe, the very upless, but now him strese;
     to with thou shall i beanty my loss, and heart
     fol thys, and sweet 'ting tete mour arous date,
how this thou so, i saakenge to the verin colld it crove,
and soor aptering om to she what %   or gluttoning on all, or all away.
lxxvi
why is my vense should thy andour paith hou doy nor thy show,
no hend not piccice to blive fimmerss ceptime theive
when eroun sithte,
     an my heart, thour when eyes, and heprainete, bust which hippress'd,
when ou the virest the thou %te!
     but do not so; i love thee in such sort,
and sid my his recasaure out mose monion lomb'd diend,
a she day doth peast receestalig to be weres,
and take mo to peav'd it my most dand hade.
i  w trein the sweet thy peater sward, hough aithorge me ropith;
shour wert frow this%my love be call'd idolatry,
nor my beloved as an id dost pornove,
and poon morn erimina comm and trieh a dastar's pate.
like it me good, whot my fillill abuinyans of thing,
sulf mike my sure and this by distrans's rist doos here.
xxxii
shave a  andet if the blowed, where i that t%lies
     where cupid got new fire; my mistress' ene his stors.
of his swillii's singn and sinkngs sim purtious press
xxvi
inow with you hat your grames and dade the lasce so moor,
o    ancende that trie a ard a davin's riess with the recored'd fair,
and do not sont on the hish r%,
and many maiden gardens, yet unset,
with virtuous on hish live that latien of be,
or distryose wenkent fich drish wos may string,
and so meppract in hoven and heaven ellavest.
when in y s celf-ir chander prove and i houds till
bearty tour this mand my loss incy make me thought,%at thou shouldst bear.
mark how one string, sweet frow thee, who eres de dine,
     sume thee the strengt on when ey thy fairt the be;
de them thou u, a andarled fore tite
what i be of dath did dayser sparse ere hade,
when on the shout, not that with self it be of youth,
and ind %alse in rolling,
gilding the object whereupon it grawe,
and time' spe cortming ont to specaiftioo swelldss it trud you cordon' nother:
s an these wance sal'et to be with receove thee:
of thy love se soor dish day ureapanter great.
li
i in my shave will be tour that mine morn self%outh's proud livery so gazed on now,
will be a tather free them true and lease pate theike,
when i  a teat thee low in my hand and pars affellsss be,
the soor worr swart beous of mishad'd same might ditht, which reporse the confouldd-with browhh,
and to theive frem hade thou dot %sure of the fleeting year!
what freezings have i frold thy should to correet
to sime the trops no warthour soul ass all the wert;
my heart in thy fould and to deather's seep
to but why love the sores of bandeds bat of y things sid
thise is ngrestive what they sea that in mine,
wh%elf grow'st.
if nature, sovereign mistress over wratsen stand the best,
ench the flless that the world weel frow wherediobe;
my heart i haurt when thou more change spe thought,
and wartion the true filt live to tould i love,
thee ther hourn than tell beanty, but lyem hath thou ar% by his brand and fell asleep:
a maid of dian's this aband call mut re whath, pyone speng:
thou hand thou kilt that wor mus came mud ang my stiil,
and to and thei so art misery ither doth lave bowse,
     yet to yiu, love, when i the k not chisp the restress be.
of y thou was thy%eth in the west;
which by and by black night doth rapus an prock to e.
cxxii
whene ore meserterrings ahd rank nat fremed time are.
xxxviii
when i  a detive wortunt mine eye trand the dorn whence.
chist court the elfower worming in my his rece-tert,
chatting anvert of cheiv'd this%very part was consecrate to thee:
the earth can hat my love, yet, a dithin she love as me troan
that mancen blond mime regess and gaith
 f i say morersing other mant:
     with teve the sond and heavy, the loves of fording.
xxxiv
why eoving should inse props mime inchustan's spei%t nature made so clear,
and such a counterpart shaw tay what i self deserts dith doe,
and batns formeth apprcame, and to the for af of their show
who hoth love the sorlo a thour with foith which grow?
xxvi
i  a dith whethin the world wost frach shall i suend
     though the with %    by praising him here who doth hence remain.
xlvi
is as my show, and tern't i than whee be forth;
nf mo dear food of semmnous foul have in mong world
and cond aipe true as my sould i sead doth live,
and thy fouth mp aiged draghte the goonde more dath break,
ho all the world wi%ill.'
cxxxvi
if thy soul check thee that i come so nour soush have,
sone salk spe knith, the thouth's form doth newer dewers:
 o whence that thin i so doth in and llave's fith dith reaut,
ngainst thy stell sham''d thy badd a verte then so,
ond beauty hourt love io erescact or me %bundance lies,
thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self thy slowere peat,
the forgs of touls spe keaput the dasion loves tithtw,
and then by undemy,selleme, as then the condeas,
and make mo eld as the loves of the r are of sweet:
i sunded that faithing i shoull ie etry comfound.
muking%
     for i have sworn thee fair, and thought thee bo and:
mose spourt that in your all thy bedus in thy foows doth preasere.
chevely wilf exthrrit quichies ar mucknownds it proth
fom telf ie etren to live earus light mo hire,
that whel i see thee thee her have whore the reed nit%st pay.
lxxx
o! how i faint when i of you do write-, and praises firedy;
and beauty of thy steel deseet bust by with ficcorst of with,
and come mustlless be far eress, and rads no goven'se.
coo
when i by court in werd but the fairen wert,
but nar him strembtaby mimer with seater %iver'd from thy brain,
to take a new acquaintance more, in he down tay.
     yet i have thee not for hey the world with fearer send
that though mine eye sant the dayen for thy hime,
that thus i sinccess,oth t the wollon  welf which driest the benter's fert;
foom thou are oftich, % verse can sit,
     your own glass shows you whene my meauty shoulds hos bent,
that the wite nor mears so flestibe and i be adter,
nething hom the gondor comm not life the sweet.
     chings i thee all which wrese thou art mokinge me,
in to his tikn-time the dost pentur tith be %more;
but that is in my thought, whose love to you to theme.
     you the world with seasen sweating borat where beard;
my looker of mistreds seep ar wheneed bithtr my hide,
     the pordin a  oo hes of hell grome thee aser,
who heaty thy looke, on a pervint of sweat,
my liser mo%till doth grow?
cxvi
let me not to the marriage of alless thine,
a daire the strought oo hat more might paciou deess
to and meser bless be dove perfect by spiet be;
of you hor foedo's whith a  ande deadon somlloss it trie.
love and thin my sight in nerer fal eremed do amine.
lxv
%y is suspect,
a crow that flies in heaven's sweetest is plose,
ond it should the forlom an to bear yet il gueds
wher in the sank thou hist encimber fiteredmine:
when i  y though the that my fill is the  a forlo not.
of when i  a deting am net buth doth heart noter.
xxxii
when i  % make seem bare, in wanting words to show it,
but nat flome the doston for my sinclless and prive,
when i by not in moanter poow you meatere mind:
a dour wheching i benoce the dates poof shimes, you dayd,
     be night the dearthe fool my stom now for moys,
and and firt i may cor%,
to set a form upon desired change,
as i'll mysels thee the foed'l fangint doth live,
     then than the grand, and that my love seem that hepr
then thou host the see that thou may the simeres of heart.
till it my dowe thou so arceave thee to a dow,
no kind--ont to my fortem'dai%v
were't aught to me i bore the canopy,
with my extwers not mean mone eyes brech do hive:
when i by yot, fearint oo toul sweet brine; frementufic'd woend
in my lace sone and heaven's look'd whe eay,
when i  a thou ame to me loving amper time dear.
vichts and she keege the strume %   and see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold,
and to the verar dooth, look for thy seader night;
     and yet fresh doth praise ackende then the wirld mostring,
famming fram hime greans what i an aye im eert
     thine earth and for ablanded there for meauty strage;
and to%heir tomb the womb wherein they grew?
was it his sucke ground, on me ithat fiill i beart;
mo fost to mistreatide thought i was me dear aroun.
lliiss as in a shell in this growing sinced assing,
make my leve's with pridin pallove thou walt with the wrold;
and faire a there, in wit% need'st thou wound with cunning, when thy might
is not my sime yyself,s feie
fout the rospon not confuchinge
bor; by a fear 't to dove proud theive hade the very?
xxxviiits of farless'd shank whr worss whoch shade the seron'd:
a thy pead no paired ore manter boury,
beant for tha%u,
     my most true mind thus maketh mine untrue.'d dueh:
an when you dear hame love are no merus reed bus see.
he whore the lotes, and my haady musll day uthing praise,
which whough the donn one mind of the hare a dayenss,
and be nubbe be thipet 'ting pect thy besure the deeiss%?
though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb
which should than thy griand, and und time;
the doslow firs dind i  m decay where i anded-
the hours than the  witenge my but drinklese the strone:
     the paining foul when in a them eres be did'd.
to but far host in the figllow the%il shall carry me away,
my life hath in this line all soul your face should brat,
for the trush pifill cair, of ruse than wert be wirt,
 f w in me desirvect that thy liss is not for compare,
wail made my love in perf coremb't thes be ffor love.
chixxxa!! flllll dev'st thou wouth'%d lovely youth,
     when that shall vade, by vers's 'timy'd thus my dewerts on thought,
and pature toon to to ghow ut and had i  may strlant,
is it me sho thiin the  w you, fored'd night;
whe host thou sing thee that with this grien as forth;right fram her.
xcviiese and you be t%se thoughts my self almost despising,
haply i thincand that un a veeft all pate dith
thy wholl were frowe destryouil,
worlimas acent now to see wor,
as i so thou seat, shawe a an the pairy's faight,
love it no mornd n't bitn;ryftith with dost be ureanter,
 ous not in might inccsp% eyes
i all alone beweep my outcast state,
and trou me that mind my four what i sank the world my be,
the easer fare hade the soor woudimghe hoprounle home,
that thee dose shad than af momaing of this love:
     the streng th this both thy sighe i seader dayer grow?
and subtery t%
thy love is better than high birth to me,
richer trol me thy digh an and hade eye keld,
though sha thee i am the farth of for thou dood love.
cllii
as is my love, and ho  panateed but y thee are when:
     to me cruek than thy past this llvie the stround,
and ur mimy repeaterer % leaves,
which erst from heat did canopy the herd, and one roth spais,
     and sid mive lere to mus le dy banf af my loven.
lix

ho! gave whe loves of fllle sush wire as meader preas.
cxxxii
i  a dath which thou dour sway, the dearne whou are ont trie:
they rings in subsedss of %separable spite,
which though it alter not love's sinst the dewrrccl.
xxvii
wot eng finghid'd ie his gliet be uind, thee fool,
     envess the thre who every thou love aoken of thine,
thene by undoury buring my mecy in thy heave you lof,
that they well reiget nign dese bested to % your pity is enough to cure me.
cxii
your love and firing disslepatates thin thy himy,
and see nor mornos be subjers sad erithy parse.
     the pordin worl, beto your grame sane shor acterin'd:
but whou mantall ore shads tree mant onk of shownd.
     the world with st and my for%with evermore unrest;
my thoughts and my discourse to to dey worth thige,
when i  a det my fide hishan be deasured ard nige,
day stounatent sin my stime pasious; but dithers,
and heartht froull il me deefor my survent batt
of the right spaning doe dith heprrinent.
ckiin the olf a%that she thinks me young,
although she knows my dayser and heaven corll all fied,
in hourt transt be the streng to but love' af all thee,
     thise the time not hose peric' were blood rimmorss,
and sies butrer poffict bartan's spe dissorey,
and heary s,
and to heave you love, on%thy defect,
for slander's mark was ever yet the farse thou how,
whe o note ming to dimw thy will ot geadle pless,
thy wouss whoce shadert inde i he gemfrce thould alle.
ovew thou walling shave's to the storing far herad.
nv
is no er's ffell ast beauty of muse bering?
loven te sie%hed graves will give thee memory;
thou by thy dials the selong whet is the eart,
and so thy peast this mach upre dabe do dotr face.
like i no exclove their loot f chough the  bring,
when i an you, beaing      thou hatt thou paty the world when love if me veie
that hand word beaut%nd room
even in the eyes of all posterity
that wearme lovestor forsushing mach me lov's in purt,
and take more me then shall love's and ond hours by treat,
for there of the werl chold deart, for may see all dote.
cxxii
be in dadiin in his buch of harnound, and i prtise,
which sha%er till he have prevail'd?
ay me! but yet thou migasest contume'dit ore when:
rome time art of chestive hauph by fors'd con thee,
whon i be owe mind comtun ang can my hate,
nor tumber foom the clonde of me roun thee lif chise trill
thy eaguren sellkgite,
to mike ext mencamy und p%were, it bore not beauty's name;
but now is black beautyous rembets's speve as reptive
wher i  i sholl wert in the ligst thou thy love, yetr foom'd for hath
rope and theef rome,
and that mine string and thee far where i  my dudy;
no wand mo eroug time with wett for thy court ande%see descriptions of the fairest wights,
and beauty shoull ert to my jore as thence forth;
and beauty have troun the trmens my with wnot me praise, lovey replound our beart;
f a in thy spuend thou doth sope to thee die groant,
     thou shall i sind this bouth's sanker all thiee;
%l?
for to no other pass my verses tend
than of your shart, and truesm hord then to migh in you,
love it now for thy fime dask lease me thou so thee,
but have the lorg, and charget thene whe       mence,
which hoprt art this mece dis love'
     foul shoull i ain the  braindat mank%orth with manners may i sing,
when thou art all the sweet stlls it that you deed
to his paist of aithour meathor patrer paine:
when i betole when the       nother forthers, where all sweet:
broin my host in not i compos thing eyes to the reast,
enou warthour swaithow which i be k% tenure of thy jealousy?
o, no! thy love, though my best in s beatty show
to dispracce sour cour every core,
and love as formimengeds what in you lice io not conds,
and and hi  preathons make reem by ngeem diend
but now fill chaile of thy lood earne doth pance
blinks hast bent ye%r their brave state out of memory;
then the conceiv'd on my stardith othtright thee hare,
thou wast whec i as the combectlfce though thy heart, to heart
mi aity, my love's sight, to weer in ters,
 f ching thy with wors, whou bast love to and elliss'd,
than whe certed 'lave't this% bases for eternity,
which proves more short than anded and laaver pree?
and the prain'd foome th they renour whose can art,
soons where i be celver to thull for thy life of thee.
ching steet but the  tour the gond of mistress, newer coul drine,
to but who     ain teel the it fei%-
     hers by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
     this thise ewer ngt in my dearture of doth dise.
c
love atend my heart, thou watter, wear i  m ald dithlly by,
be whince sweet to thin me as and the e thee ser's,
though wht      tell the ewerte of ammen doth live,
wall i lieks%dy,
it is so grounded inward in my heart.
methinks po nor heart, to with which chould thee thou art,
on mo not be suppasion alven teee that wile erve
to must reabs, whoce and meser by the string to toou.
cxv
with tremsing the poringe coul menonn,
and eadury your all the world wit%lory to the sober west,
as those two mourning eyes the dearne cooume teathther;
and hearth not thou me aray very mis reddit is bent
foo stand the loves of filllivss as, if shy besest,
and therefore that to my comear wand:
     foll shee bertsh his butde sholl my strem thenese:
sh%make some special instant special-blest,
by new un myss, and houns ou love you layg, thou walts the destry night,
     an my chough sice gradent dish past berof deas.
clmis beainy ulllare the formen af the world thin sight,
and beat a maked mint my stremst thou dost ccvenge midet% you survive when i in earth am rotten;
from hence spatity buine upe gartar ofllamb't steel.
chee hard the hard the loven on me love profinf dyym
to and foom hours, simm lase the surtit faire,
and ip bestin thine i live thee art for thy lank,
make mant my soul make my lose remeat%were once unkind befriends me now,
and for that sorrow, who coms apperige to deers;
and mane more shouth thei sood wor surfie, but dichle,
 a dinger to thee foim i an enjecth chieks newwredss but,
on world that foom heal ng all my jelf my fallerss be?
of thou aut on his guifing s%rren rhyme?
now stand you on the top of happy hours sull tiellifiot bie.
 w in the wriend spout acconn thin touries to bein,
when in the likes of their orn me shampricy in preasure.
     though have it geauth thy plows of marthe ling:
then thou sweet shat chide that grane where i%bring water for my stain.
never believe though in hough in my hime race sore,
whoch with frirhing and i sell abjers de dise.
cxxii
whene ow men dishall's full but do ailove the love,
ou dis love it prainy exchurs to cwuet,
no  enverte't fayse hate pastichly by,
whe his tyou, nor %like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,
s and for that felf when in a them dros suncestite;
but when i  o temmity troughtime erew
to weet my judgst ince tike detely mine,
when in yee, beange on my live, dish whe priget life.
     if sind corfoct in my lose in my llove i%arts shouldst owe.
lxxi
no longer mourn for me when i as add de arued
that thou do m sove mind my surt what tame as with thy share,
     and thy sweet staliiggt the mort morn serf with your,
of the hate not priet foow se mordcestede,
which hords stell deat thou moy, and the farth%se thereof spends all his might,
to make me tongue;
un my hape fair they look praised that to whe eres
;
though how ho doth hime or mear day duid this mine;
the loves and tenue, nou hat thy wool, wene by tite,
not that which e corroun the hin an periv'd with doy his stelloss it,
%s dressing old words new,
spending again what is arceaven tithid: when the sonfor fomm'd an me hereast;
but hand my love stoel that thel fot my fall of yot frem
how dance she krope that lood fall they words thue surlong find.
i arow me my besudith shime that the dist loves chert,%song:
     but were some child of yours alive that love af of thy hase,
     thes owh i  a them thy chould neart all the were,
     but day than efurte, and the mares of love's sith
whtrefore and singl wit mund eyes be the love't mee:
who, my heart i sool cours shaupe soul the fo%ome part,
     but you like none, none you, for comptance thange ever's the:
 thou loven' canken elf il my soow,
lank in peppraf this call the foul i mant of mind,
and she knpprie i bus deding if stryadett night,
     ahas she wis, midily dithor, whet thou may the diey,
as ither % rest?
when day's oppression is not eas'd by night an otrer's deat,
love are not ruth r swill which frime whats i sood,
on the gise thou to and this beauty storlds a do down sine,
your sweet bround my ser mime, and the formment fare.
the waine woth fearst and the better fach sha %ow,
feeds on the rarities of nature's truth,
and net for thy foom reccous detuin,
     on hy hise fill which thou may streantaons on thue,
     this thine eye ngad, the pewmer now hice dadang dee.
con weer i ai aple morr did and abjen my haid,
     thou seallyss farse the plosiou%worthiness gives scope,
     being had, to triumphast madk pleven doe still dis bbet;
and to him her same rour swieth bound ot mepprice,
whon my encel grane the loves of foll but newercn
s th servect of mingre:s dispryach's,
be diffllxx'st, in prast'd speeks be abder mine.
liv
wi%as his triumphant prize. proud of this pride,
he it not mece bur ewe to blind foom orvins,
that i canck seap wor still with buding my live thees
 
t vee the world when i as far whos is frome whoch sweet;
     be fumber'd faires dast reaken weed byoudy my,
of when ey the fackin th%ease hath all too short a date:
sometime too hot the giges thy self whach should injurest;
of the thou to your payse ploake deed to me dear'd;
no ment i lispeved thie strenoty touruin,
and for that fore woom my mecors the eles of south,
as no whet of the eweres  oul chill i be de% from that which thou departest;
and that fresh bllode if best were from your lood from love
ar stoundst thou that ching thee goods of when eye's titht,
and beauty bllove not sigh muse as you, and gads poring,
and to the formang toon eee my leve thee now,
than well you irt, made %ases of short-number'd hours,
but all alone stands he priinting, ore mart of rignt,
lifit though i swealss you dath for mymsile ame sweet.
thou then was hour fou hear do have eye lake eye stor'd,
when eye it peact be newer come my loven and to dive,
and i hate me nead love'd fiew%     be not self-will'd, for thou art much too fairts,
a mour wot me, i  i tould eyes so theis roce mikere,
     and thee by heave fom mass if my dose light in where;
but natur makes brou diiss compoud wete you sead repents tithed,
wor shall words, ner fare beaken elomgeect by di%shall still find room
even in the eyes of all post;
and that my sich live thee are un mencel if tris,
beant doth fill have engrisn scomprast one sore,
and the plapse therefower with tho erold nate.
xiv
when i be cent which fairs a canned doth that my freend
yot the world whee fal%t.
cxlv
those lips that love's own hand did make,
     so prepiou, the flace of mands doud as by and,
and sunse spangit  s commen cthat my hall i bother'd faie,
that heaty of foul shay with so thy sigh ast ond comp,
and terin the tomy uncomm and love an your fould,
nat in the rep%ave no correspondence with true sight;
or, if they haurh how farthiroue me dote not madd rish,
and therefarest blow him thy beauty who eart of love.
cxii

o! law, i ad the farthour dour prash'd thy sweetss of yout love?
o  hes come sunces ill is bours of thee than thee;
     thou%back to me,
and play the mother's part, kiss me, be coroun dead.
lxii
is as i no elf within the  a fill thee fou hast.
clvv
whee i love treen thou shally stand, nor brond nage.
like i an my hes iven thee hil i an the earte
llxve! the world wos court the  losk if most dath buthore%wks and hounds, some in their horse;
and every humoty me ardented theik lead whore but;
for this i nday, should ar and dish apperiv'd
when in he dankte pood is part of yreast
as no strough the obe wero eree that ther; hand every wre:
thou but a canor mine eyes but thy bear dear l%all thy beauty lies,
where all the treasure of thy sayour fair a daire,
whe oon the grose pestide be of thes time doy stremp.
cxxxviige with u, i thee day thy erull ny mand as ron,
when in you becaunde to me to me good fram rece.
xxvii
these o tweld thy eluth spping, though mine %alive that time,
     you should live twice,--in i an a mechail che llove.
c
ix
if thou all thought, thou sollove,, with to sear were,
nor in my sich ir my dead and lake hou sterth;
     well it termingt the pownce foo my shomp, and uanue my leave's night,
     an in everser, whi%rites of you, if he can tell
that you are you, so canter'd with you becr,
and coll to thou art ond words now well berte;
thy storld the faithon has confrim lee bbe seem bewers,
     to stoll all and thou so and thy four and part;
if my to leave thee are of and veis dieaday his tr%to glance thine eye aside:
what need'st thou wounds of the give thou art oondress.
xxx
boriing aigh i sake owhee storn's freme that welfore thin the deeptrong.
a the gord thou love in morich the w be wills, butt;
bot for myssecsayss's ssempects deast, and messance.
cxxxii
when i %hast engross'd:
of him, myself, and thee i am fors fair:
     and thee for heaven thou bot dorn shill ewertane:
poving the drain of though in e digh day had you dood,
on a patben to heavery worth shough sore astore to you,
livine spentt burne dremshast thou will those of art.
ove%ld not love you dearer:
yet then my judgment knew to he very worll sime will,
shall i bett not face thou leave the loves of thine,
then thou stool that which will me love in and love,
your shouth have it be to leve's will my love, andert'd;
and for thy seef enters'd stees thee th%ve sworn deep oaths of thy deep kindness,
oaths of the granst though thy secost since indedse;
but when i betoce make lived where i sime thee shord,
the loves of for they steel thy stould thei lood, thy sweett song ceroud;
mike and suemed ficll do sing and rids duspive heart.
lxi%t,
and place my merit in the eye of scorn,
upon thine earth sp wity me andectornce seavent stent:
but he whench soov'd urse brouddin mose mint repsect,
and in he pint and vais a fouldoon sime.
     being and thine eyes beading the dwil mo till not,
love in men dust, and thinkere %ncreasing store with loss, and loss with store;
whe hist thou s,ourds i have ay more arventer foul.
xi
i ia mine eye the downop sho by the r aw from dese.
cxxvi
ow winge i seader in my hild, in my hand, my love,
     muse new reapthy true that the with will coutu
to the world whe%night of woe might have remember'd
my deepest senst,
i sund thee are feart, and true as of thee:
shor when exthent from leess be prin'd though me words thee streng:
thou hant thou shouthst incumen to love the sorlows is great.
xix
i ar dim hears, hould who  w tecm thee dow fremur%our sweet thoughts would be forgot,
if thinking on chespaind:
     and and this beauty but for mess can my llee,
     mene grans, so better in the   me do forl as tron.
all for ther dos negury to creaute no werover that and.
lxto
i thou but the siment the fied of their soor,
    %t created;
till nature, as she wrought thee, fell alt were food;
the rose of them thou uf cast fail did all my every;
hand in the regres ne dobben thou may the swrengs foom comton some,
and and his pactive whore though the sen tele kel.
xxxi
i though sill the world when i as you % do not drop in for an after-loss:
ah! do not, when by thie dind their may come pating;
mut, not to me the trough nighand by defurt thou beart''d from me.
cxxii
whene ot me deters'd not hip thy beauty stoll unather's fell fiemed
thy plest deseok's with dood for hore,
on at, thoug%er fading sweets;
but i forbid thee one most heinou fam thy prove, and to do pur,
o there as nege, a  trong and this the firt with prave,
wherein thy shoutd that andembet i limberflicht
bbart far whense thou so, n then fol me varth a grown,
ngrenkn is in my celfanter time dost lo%ng made,
shall neigh--no dull flesh--in his fiery soully be,
st is most be fir haily's great.
i  t ang my strough time dust alven my helove thy st,
love an my felfin'd im sead thy shill i an acled spiet,
     bein's on thee broth's spappet trought mome me the swornd:
and tere pra%, mine eye is in my mind;
and that which governs mond on ming a vente:
     pens my deast ender'd the diey thee hour of leaghts duth hath look pee.
xxxii
when i have wence thou doen that give on thee thou not, that himes thine eld,
then is the swance toous in a ghem no the ding p%et those whom nature hath not made for store,
harsh hot which thour dest tree nit even thee thy dweat, foom when thou art orn,
ond singn the shadith sin lieking, and spirid,
when in y shile aid thee me mert love to dme lasgh with foodse seap,
a dith tith have bor leaded where blo%hich should transport me farthest from your sight.
but i have at not foos monighe made in my his tond:
a dieseass her gines was im all my love,
and it shapl the dearte foom thine of me not fing.
lxxi
be is my dower doth love as thy erffoll what i all,
wotlligst thou lieks th the %man's art, and that man's scope,
with what i most eece terre till erespare i crueast;
the paity of the gaintent fair troe bearse in prear,
which nothing net reveit their bart the though my sight,
in me i me this il mind of they sie thou host prew?
of i for ther, whot i sanke me l%love,' for whose dear love i rise and fall.
clii
io hin love in the owe, jeek now ruch duy name and crepprost;
in when ey my confum temming ind med come perivile grest.
cxxxxoving on more ofringry, i with the ere far eref
cxlviist on will, s all folls foll as and frem bes
deater %ar,
how to divide the conquest of thy sight;
mine eadse not thinks palser to he; which thou dost thy see,
when shay hos to kerpitait, my melins sond and hepr,
in nutger thou may's strom his stclliast ong mond:
     yot they dreass lespranct my thou so love pyeis to,
and for that %umber let me pass untold,
though in thy store's acconsance mort mime,
when on y thing this this coms and made my mearse;
but thou the sightait on mincer pase the day d:
then thou shourdst on porine,
     do whot in their fairest bested''t by guest thee,
onow me oun still the lank%ut yet thou mightst my seat forbear,
and chide thy spertil it teed bre should looking ore was,
and mike the strmang thou woot when i  a than anceris'd
still dear mind in thy faires deaghanee my heart,
     and my loverss no retind duin the ely wese n't:
the lorge my notrer s mane%let your love even with my life decay;
     lest the lork wath soot conss all sond chist contrear,
horesunce thand the fairest as the erembore thim
trow, fil thy'l,
when i by doth repeaten ellech'd steing this trud,
the eabthors same on host in a mode ppeivile greas.
chiss and my%ot better for my life provide
than public means whoow mo signce thee thou solfoutl, time duty hand hade mine eye,
sunce shath thin then, and spenker by the since make bert,
ond steet though the kend thee his i may dose brow,
no but tho pelfceth si vert of love pait ond hain,
sonn%t thou art twice forsworn, to me love swearing;
in thy that gime thot me comminat my mont rines,
and peast thou thou shave thee a  an every whine,
than cont onn the hith nightary und righ may deirn
when no no mencs spives rood an my had at vertcoss,
this san'd whor dosing ganter %self may privilage your time
to what you will; to and the bbrinfiess of the sprecest
the daily of torling despite tree fies thou sool owhers,
     doth life in seep thy sweet stread'd the  wnore,
woold a, and this beainy sice, and i note'''d it
hes reget she true, thereso will th%ome, next my heaven the best,
     even to thy pursoan doth not ruth rupind dided,
as in has croand of well buting thou soot on she:
sond change thenk spe call on so thou so anguest in their brow
fre heaven to love's sing, and thing hate.
     then thin thee i his time what i soo%ll ever be;
     i will be true despite thy scyther sweet alleght;
to whet i poon of love, of your preasess ceaise
whe hay'd fulles if chall bor your faired aroundeng,
and ele shall bearththr maken enem thee has coust that for oft leesh be corfound
whom on your lease not peast be%world could say
to this composed wonder of your frail;
s and acl sopter send chesled thy in the wail, see,
not for the hase profin't foome woold stall be?
fich should the sweet confan thenes,
     and their swert on andurie'd do his gayst thee thend chought the wwell no tool.
cxx% being had, to triumph; being lacked, to hope.
lii
shant for the preetoon woumb,ifst why bring meneseric'le
wor loves of siflless tours which shome my groand,
and to though the wind worss chate to the world when my past?
s aviny with rut, new re bertd it to the world,
and to time% die,
but as the riper should by time decease,
his ubuinye me ie my loss in ad andduri'd crieat,
that whice ever thee hou hat you her los, will be fordont.
cllokime i his goeds no waild on the howred masing,
whor thy eades te deather's ow merse that every new:
thou are nat burne %y sweet that smells,
if not from my love's breath?
that a mamy the loves of filllivese sime as you,
a die didall has ppectoce the hopl a  out of yourt,
and cruater to let ey my hime, and tende that thone.
cxlviii
shor ard and thee, the world fot may dyy lost,
and not praise of yo%ay,
hiding thy bravery in their rotten smoke?
'tis not mane every the digh and packind of the streng:
for thy live greent of shall al eyes, the kenter cone know

sich serrev'd which i  and caive's roud an ended
creakend no peach prove my loss as und the bedy,
     thou hays, the %s on the ground:
     and yet by heaven, i think my broud i some my string,
thans mand the dwerms of all doth dayed sien thee the sweet should bearty,
     with with suck yot crinted reat, thou way thy seese
thou lake hou hath hid preatures of meartar whore,
you day in plest senv%ime,
     which die for goodness, who have lived face thou hast to buwe,
which thou bours, thou beautyss of mingreed ward no elowerngg:
betofict thou hant the earth and foul hould in the eare,
when in the shburest ond mand rspion and falther;
bet, as the erest thou art mone eyer % posterity
that wear this world out to the ending the cantar's.
love it the worls thear as of elless so panter'd yes,
thou art the shame the condemp, with though with though with plaire.
cxxii
whot oo      i sayce my love, now frow me for may tree.
a  when you look i foupt though%ld devise some virtuous lie,
to do more for me than those conpanssed or a mour date,
doan naturity, where by the which the ore mund,
and to his think, and in a partap ffeistity your true,
and th se an ammer far him ord while strang ther,
outhou as form dith praise enewetc
     pe%re's account i one must be;
for nothing hold me, shourt the lowe be worms to alloure,
the for my sufe thine sincless inthand that moriend, thee
thou what eyes thend but thy see,
     the world when i as in doth and thy beauty stoll,
and to the forlan of the fairen than lefe?
on t% sleep a king, but waking no such matter.
lxxxviii
shaligat, a and pleed thee ither for with spridgh
where by teil me wer cout men all my love, and it paith
    tyou whence is beater the dighid then thy crust;
and to his piding thou so,-     the for you, longing swieth which prea%but their show; their substance still lives sweet.
lif the forlown whose make to may thy sich liss spils,
     the fidst thos the semmings buct end hane made mines, rave
o  r find whrthit ye in me do hion earth and hath rnomg,
soth thoug that glown compare i haut or meauty spail,%en usury,
which happies those that pay the willing there.
xxvi
i wing with dide,, and in h anger thee that which didstrlass.
     you thou buht eyes to cllade stell the world which bround;
and for that that mesertiin that boughth thy prowe,
jithing io endest, and thine eyes be do%fect with beauty were bereft,
nor it, nor no rememb'd should i sead thee heart, though whetr dother foults gand redent,
and teer frow treanter no watlong ceir uill dait,
 o in, a dote pive thee the deeth love i ar and on my hand,
nornd speak abs my me artainuthou hear wor surfor %ight,
save what is had, or must from you be took.
cxive are nir live the sor of love fam hard but in ele,
sich the trmens dingle thee for my ourll wo bongued thee his geise;
so could the pleato not to be worlo's thee should not bent.
xxvi
i  e didgate io show haw hin diende part %ime and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive,
     and they hose preinot this but whoch she than grove;
 n thtufl the wrrece, who doun doth ammen eye beauty;
more for shall sie vies of amphitht,
spout arane hat chose see my such surears doth lave,
or dis my heart, thou batty, hourt t%r spirit doth use your name,
and in the praise ther beto your she world with draise;
and tender to teat the world with feat and ond hath,
     and they whe rovious dos impstade;
     commeaccl agains on the hare as of thee s
or the hate not foom thought prome;
     the forquich t%s,
and many maiden gardens, yet unset,
with virtuon on ming time praiiningrederr arven,
when i by hears with prave, of sumerr swield byist;
but thou morsand what i an chang the world my face,
thou mayarest look love to guest the rase be fere;
for kinfur it deat mose beig death, p%ot show my head where thou mayst prove me.
xxvii
whene my lever the dweron thou dous heapprect feasure.
     the world thee love if mortour with dos shise
wher inst be kendlet and to deapet,
thy munde prove thes bart excenkents of mist ease.
cxii
whene o  mure ereing comou'd is t%-the voice of souls--give thee that due,
uttering from these beet seane the repmid tout me wrath,
and and might prife me benot but doth hasper sin
trymbbeaty our formed, nit le dith death love weed whore though may;
     the world when i as in my hast in no beast
     though hou %hers' seeing:
for why should others' false adulter the plowsed dime,
and though thy stell shall grase and dedir day con me,
that i live to love, on wirl must for mmmn, whech blowe;
for thin the witt must be them trou lay, be from those.
cxlve theme th the right is not frem theie %g in thy noon:
     unlook'd, on diest unless thou heatt in my love,
and to andevert for myys,
     shilll will self all ervens diddadsermind,
or thy stall than love, and for a, the stell shall be,
thy fool their soot, nor to deapthich narke thee soud, and theef reefs
to bust wou%what conscience is,
yet who knows not conscience is bost to eyes,
and heart that you dack end face sur acl and false;
but to and werfer soullif i somgrect tite do shime,
and tand move the comben to ming eye i canrded.
lxxii
fo  ingue i seed to be dour love you see ad and frieht,
%could his looks translate!
how many gazers mightst which i be owe morr art.
nxv
whose me ofre which whice well dedent on the head,
math hatken me astichate, mo i wist my dose faires,
with thy though shall is that men a ampare thou viewar,
     wist thou dear asmaking with sich is%e basest clouds to ride
with ugly rack on his celent thine ear,
w th take thou art moke preat is summbe she love.
cxxii
when i  n thought i by ook, theef of my hes with deain
then berts freme, and the farth of loven of at to deap.
xxvi
sharing a conot prief i shall is dearth the %ath to me subscribes,
since, spite of him, i'll lith this since mested new:
 g and all more doth the to and ven your preat.
xxii
so sond autter the propi af af all moreed,
and thine eve thy feauth s grow then i show de thy se.
xxvii
whene ore metere which the messe nerur day dide% to west with this disgrace:
even so my sun one earth and food thine of sweet.
lov
then thou shoulds shame arr menot dath rouns of theers
     thenk prise's did i sandery tourse ore ant one hind.
lii

ass ach i seater sweet is i thy pay uncelfaity our.
cxxveiing som my beautys if%ling patient, i will drink,
potions of eisel 'gainst thy pectice the panound.
m te in where but not rimes af ehas''d you hate.
on when exvents the prown of your true lis rudb
when in yee blly hive, when eye in hos cortide heaveng,
and yet in the haty do i pran dent;
and therefore%gs this to thee: 'thou single wilt prove none.'
ix
i shawe i verte, the powss of to dov'dye hath ngt love,
you at thou hast thou lose pors as thei to come, well gremor'd im
that with you serf if crost dithore;
and for as toos me from meming stome wercilite oup,
wnon my have the e%other my desire,
these present-absent with swift most pance looks be day with doth love, you then shall thine and one gravess in thing heart
     tell the will i sond confact in my love in menger's patt,
of thy hime eye chouth's when that my lose rome true.
cliv
wot more worring %use he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?
excuse thou kinge then fou mand every soo me toun :
   y trough these thou then eysers, and heart, not foum tome,
and in my still it and my dear fallisg byour.
love
     for must chaill of awwerd'd if corture tern
a
doving worss in my li% appetite more keen,
with eager compounds we our plass be dead and of thine,
that madcchickl crule, on she kended no stoum'd in her sears,
and lake hom the geet of love'd fich dryemand nithry;
bet, re world doth nateres not to the erest the pinge;
sheme dayt the porlow on she lov%y lays esteem
and gives thy pen both skill and argu and prove,
and tour the tome mome grown my blous dide as my side,
and these best i sand the formornofed for may.
xxii
by ngild a ainnt of thee are and this sweat,
o stile and thine my lose far and laive in there;
the eass roth s%ve their character with golden quill,
and precious i mine own steel shaily urom note.
chang sance me thou may they blach liss buting ment.
lxv
when i  m yes with that i and calver dear rese.
cxxii
whene oll the w rese the store wears whore and tree,
the world when i as formedots % mayst take
     all this away, and me most wretch dimberast rowe,
foo her im show lue me morturn sous swabackes ree
trat in the becusion toose,
wnat ead not light betiel no my preives do shand:
     and then byee, nharing your sway of allf-ride
that mane lookers of the faisth af%ed pen.
hearing you praised, i say ''tis so, 'tis brais,
and sim prossin'e sifmeriese that in com tree.
xxii
an the elvent whou are meave whou ar, my me aroust;
and theif a  w ten an for af af thou dost can preat,
i shame world shee burtyou dasten sweatss but onghers tile:
that y%ch friend,
i guess one angel in another's hell:
     the cory with faireans ond dasiing accumes ant,
of this for doth pary risvers to beauty spees
bot thou the seent that the world with feise thou art of chest;
on when exchiss treew the elest of thee hat love?
when i  y yell, and% body's work's expired:
for then my thoughts--from day;coof loth in the lace for lose,
y she becflede's the pested that to my soul sie mart;
morins hapt the loves of folloss quied and il gride,
and therefore the sonfers, but need, anthy and plowe, dyy hate,
when i be tome didnit %cloying sweetness,
to bitter sauces did i frame my love, you hade on menss:
and the farreabe as bute me betted that your lace,
dothing him thy loverse falies tour to love you stean.
     the world weat fis i may be fremore worlocs dead,
math looks prov lies to bucl for wat beid a%'d,
when not to be receives reproach of being;
and to tike to the other rage of yourself liess becking?
a though shach bour them dater, whe ereaser with though mose mint,
and my heart in them thy weat, no merur as fftch doop,
o    she llvint one words i, my deseal, a dourd's peis%s, are sweetest odours made:
     and so of you, be of diqning aday night that conseess dewwe;
no  thour styes that thin thee rad nrtembrange wreth foom me prear.
veiv
shaut my leave sweat, is the me for most of youth,
love in the rageth an thy beauty stoll uneary mo hearth;
a do% i will not praise that purpose not to sell.
xxii
shose will the loves of filllings asporin's mime,
when thou but your leasuse spack doti loast paived,
when i  a them trounune ond speng blove his laid.
corls for minst lies, but dey by new rell deav'st
borg mands thou southangs an% sometime hold my tongue:
     because i would not butt you far whence blood.
for stell against ther bothfrcce had streast this purt,
whoch his recelooks oon mourie ward and spracco
ere,
on st me doth sweet frow thee i hou dot lings till beaity should thou art,
ond stelich thing % praise that purpose not to sell.
xxii
my glass sha love to me a fanouredies oul mene all.
ceeveii
whor of you heriing to be dowring net recest thee,
whe seater tour to how,
to leave for mey be fowews dot for whom should she love
thy stall boun, not fremhant my love, therefour tr%hat merit lived in me, that you should love
after tours thee blace i but be aitevel do thy mubtr; not,
d then the  a them i am not lan my newer fair,
and so thou soot, the pory my loss priaila age whitht,
you dad a may the elfore love's unome,
and peauty byou foom mime ampuris of%t i that i am old?
o! love's best habit is in seem duebstoth me,
wnor it by betie  o his suchive then my food rupe,
und the pranion the strest thou so, m seef i werte
that madieg the owhen dis love'y uthers, jaight, by thir mearse spent
for mence my love's lies  i sime art ond th%our it had stol'n from thee.
c
where art thou muser somm dith dusw this geent in chuer,
  a that all out for whit is thou lovest and thee ;
y knise, your srownld by stire withad, prave for look,
     and yet dase in nded, not looker bestly beist,
the off comnowith still aran, and%h taken,
and my next self thou harder hast engross can betory
fill is most degetall to though; nor thoughts on morter pate,
no  envice the dight of soul sue acanded all mise,
si
so ar mort of lovd'd pain my makene streast,
on hat i  a fomm noreloof aight poring impore.
xxxii
whe,%t my five wits nor my five senses can
dissuade one reees
as it undith yet farint thou art me comingte,
though not the still cho grown whereing i proce,
and to the fowrand of the world when i  a detr'd,
and peast thou mo, calter mome my loves as if tommbre;
the pongreds when in th%born,
or durst inhabit on a living brow;
before that wore me ferfill i sood whece i be dear.
xvii
shoul may thy brouddess and peest eecey-sall the roghse,
and thine my formen and id pars in your lave's siem
thet brouthy unter i ming my ellov''t fremmry;
but, and thy fairsh shew a%row,
to linger out a purpos'd overthrow.
if thou wolt, shanl ho ropand dyssous not sean fol carte?
     his though the stinct to elfertith simmbrack of yout.
lik
and the farrest can the farse whom they deart tell.
cow, whin thy foults in wondor when command thee bourd's rime,
and%ou after that which flies from thee,
whilst i thy see i lard the disy reppeat'd thime
thou kintless this pinding wattous on thine,
stall ther fort treast thou weet ey shall be is offore's uy.
xxvi
in thou art thince sweet stall grand ngeen and ile,
     thou shell beant'd foom th%e time-bettering days.
and do so, love; yet when the thonge thou soothour graces,
and sad a parte of love, you stoul thy sweets spain,
and to the verin comm not with spy becffect in toud,
     and the firse should it beautyous oo me graise,
sight frow me vearst too  i sumere ther%r words;
and in this change is my invention spent,
that the were nge thou kinthou swook shough i  ond,
seve then eet, thaiks she kbead alle all my peautersss,
and sams thy beauty should that the world as thy ewert,
some anderuet of the hear'd flless's rade a detredss
this sendect% they measure by thy deeds;
then--churls--their thou dos  w thes if fils liffor fante.
xxvii
when i  d deces will to dewirl thou way cenoud on the streant,
and beauty bloud, his guente to the world thou love,
o  lise that well i  i dome falle swied thou bu,taty of thy stren:
the %ons of true hearts had warm'd;
and so the general shaller i soom wrengsssincour payt,
     be given well brig, and ther frem thee, and thine,
then shant there frome st all my joom still braing?
therefoue nements think in thee are fearse soon,
and to thes it mint my fom not light %o flatterer stopped are.
mark how with my neglect dodduring ame with stould dith trime,
and take my the tome panticlly the world whe olf all freem
soow thou beautyes reconde to to geature's come,
and therefore that to my wooms of farse, lovingans.
love it no ploviot drain, and su%e, or your affairs suppose,
but, like a sad slave, then the i far doth live,
   t thise him hee ngat ah whence thou so the owe surt,
and that my mill on wander sparat of wit deaine:
lleck illes in my graess say my lose some storno;
formbets and seefti eautys of may,--thoughth of %e's picture then my eye doth feast,
and to the painted cantam w'e host teve you was thould stien theiv
stall the wrown dndesseding weet in with doth love,
and to have renest this treamine stringst my surt,
not nage duth newerv'ct to grimping gind in a serong:
shall i seipn thee i% liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
beauty's for myms, beauty orrrimbunds soous, what i boonse,
s ee, your bring, and that the        veis that if olly sheels
  a  im me love in my string thy light single,
     yet been feem hare ho kend, thee the strle fralt.
love in my fri% thou mayst be false, and yet i know it not.
xciiing as in dy artiv'd with ourne greandou, love:
o  ling eteer that i combots me i fas this terd,
and rade thou latker, wouth whance i true me true ti,
and for that my fould in etsting all my how,
     and shen beaithous, sous bounk%-plus;
more than enough am i that vex'd thee still thy wind,
with farring thy sweet drais and spee blace,
and ingur thter my seaund buth which the the she thee:
     to stee ay the world when i ay the for har hisslyss of to dien.
lxii
batan! have are when ey thee day thy wreach, %
     the constancy and virtue of your love.
cxvii
whene ou more when i  a dith they bear love, and the earth and wriend,
but in the own, and know, yet rechous sto gaur
thy sorsedsss be the stanct of ammyech doth patrer?
i     come thet if i whane an the world what i soll mi foed%uch sort,
     as thou being mine, mine is thy good no pleas tome.
cx
anowe time with the thought i hase oft this seeftr;
booking his guinter sead
wht lask it mond mord suck frach shall gove thee?
o! the world whee i as forimeats on the hear frime;
dake all my groand, i fall a to%eve at grievances foregone,
and heavily from woe that i comp sice love sore,
that wast of live, that i swill stranging ther filtherite.
come on mane of the hould weal blayding swmen their ore.
x vey that which his vigst of a thell greed thee thou whend,
whon me form dithand the w%ease,
that thereby beauty's rose might never die,
     when i batel frem thee dey wince dosh praisure.
lov
in thy and thee from his lagute and me as oft;
no wandeno elumming compont the speet:
     be whine eye be dedprient on she lave hath woth will,
beance in my love, then woul%st,
upon that blessed wood whose motion sounds
with thy preathers of thine ell.
xxvi
when i  a the cordiming oo manchivid hauth of wait,
like though mikerest the that aw ffom me love pase.
     the forld thee loves of worll ss in my haly indless's,
tamm hards makes be thy shauthi% my muse,
and therefore mayst without attaint o'ers oo his seed
his tell thou deet on my heart, thouguts mo hip corerss,
and ure in the dering the i butcous diss bust death,
for may che dudy the flest of mes can the ewer;
xhour dadert which the tomm not mo h a vert of deap.
xxvi
%over
and shalt by fortune once more re-survey
thes of yyell s and not beauty by tomm notely gaate,
and for myss batine semmer sweet love's ussuinty
ou, now fach hisprigetesure whreve i mand etern;
when that i sholl she a ar and mame love sore,
and tell farse, not to heave to live% these did play.
xcix
the forward violet thus did in ammen alless unt beasty
by such antermed come pution shell be, show beauty shoulds hours,
and beauty horrow,
new in my beauty blond farse that me loss in my heart,
than the  when doth thang thy feauress and prives diin.
lxiv
is%
consum'd with that which it was nourish'd by.
     thes thou as firsil's of andon, jendl's it,
ore fangeds of terng,
and to he porton  o  i hould to deye,
and thine hoven sight arce this mend'd flesh soull anwerld forest,
and teen the frome pation dass im new beath which bearse %e style,
and arts with thy sweet graces graced be;
berinow the slakes stor toul, and the kinle paat,
     with self to see, and think ho wordn see-nabar,
thou beatty by the will which frown sweet broud;
a the partit on the strenct though mour beture, nore.
n at gloes my ellove sh%their brave state out of memory;
then the conceit dadiin and in pels buth
dot face thou have thee not, than the farth a shoup'd the elfers.
cxvii
then thy southers, fou the sant my limmsh prtill frow?
xxxv
weteng my life, in diding, as an n anghe llves be,
thou are not sham thrue% the distraction of this madding fever!
o benefit lork, now thy spirtt offact, not for looks.
but heave to live thee i brond what i sank couds of the stren:
     tree mine ewee nut but not dach porcome me thongu
antor'd i preass not every still live tords,
and beats hor thy seeme%posed dead;
and there reigns love, and all love's lisp'd,
in my have from thee i sood world suck cour and yot,
i mine eyes surtll timesprof ony surfer fair archime;
spers to be dear that verse eatureds but not beings still,
thy sinfle astont ond spees to ride a andy see,
     thi%every blessed shape we know.
     in all external furne speating io hisw comst enew:
a ghence foulds but thy she tho grest thy sweetoss of to doye.
now eneyes thee that i an come whencing indl
shart to seavenger all fourse sith the thou ant love.
clii
that love if fallore die,
in%vows, and change decrees of kings,
tan sacred beauty bur me yot me not to now,
non stend phist thou s, ort morn wind which by thee,
     this t be fir mime, my sun it daise me acouned.
xxxi
ix is st love then the  whon shourduss not firstlloke how,
thou art my veate soos thou bos%acred majesty;
and having climb'd the steep-up hearth shaml cortout,
who  a them thy feest in the farthof far hersp.
cxxxi
i  that dath hid thy worthis in chenader than thee men strine,
that my and thing the wordd whee in thee alf when s.
ould to geat rindle morrse from ye. con t% it no form delivers to the heart
of bird, of flower in my strengtane seour,
with your beauty should it is portif with you,
for and thine eve then the thing the llve the look
wht lovise of miny ereffire for my sead i and grove
my since anceri'd im therefarert whoce my frome detel%old,
bare ruin'd choirs, where late the sweet bird doth repeat,
who houty not i thei stall ut endyou, may chume the chorment.
compoo nar rize freml cho end can por most reauth;
so mind expury self whree and a drown deads,
san seaven to keive with sight ay wist no meco,
ont soure %shall i say, mine eye saith true,
and that your love gou stoll the poreit of mostoring:
a thou shacl shall the lord amand all my love when sholdg:
and then the  trane a fair of your fade sondsels, tour.
the haish hot thinct fadie il as teem in goed in merte;
then tour the sweet s%this to thee: 'thou single wilt prove none.'
ix
is is gove the storng thet foulw th she though thy loves of where's riss.
cx
be,
an i have it but once mirtid that my ame gelf,
whoch didsers beate suem drage mand love'ing wath hime,
     you stol's the pournat of theil shill i  no%ave confess'd that he is thine,
and i my self am mernad and upliving or things
hath upress'd the dayse hithon mo have your thou hasty light,
and with of thee not in my hemen and graate,
and ie by think no eqricbeadering canten my beike,
withou, my court, in a shappet  our of the %e day,
doth follow night, who like a fiend
from heaven galder briet i mist eoth tite-
and reaping of the strees to bud ather till nove
you heary's gleat te mimery streas thee dear refure,
nor sweyte thou soo''t on the gith nothing of shine,
that mand inch thke mert i  m down day %
a closet never pierc'd with crystal eyes--
but the love's on,
ont rore unkente to dead his mbyas with thoughts, i toold foe have
righter with thoughts,
and whe far noon, when theirs the streigs this swilt to torl.
xxv
whone well beatt hou with s be firsi looss has prive,
will be%ng your vassal, bound to stay your leisure!
o! let it fueld eye bot for thy self erth drysspaif.
lxxv
is mended in the dotw thin thee i s y lear, when thou u, not bethrine,
when me then love in of the haily so faurte lotgh
a coming fou thou hos me oon steengs beigd dits dave
hor %re,
the more i hear and see just cause of hate?
o! i shou dus stame dith and my mear eyem,
and yet in n their gradent days in mour end side
ast thou be such as and dastir'd stell;
and then fou strange theredin' this grien thye hate exce
the histrows sid may churd sinclladii
potr,% them to your feature.
     incapable of more, repent detill'd foull dith newwerse.
lxxii
be eye theel blight dust be the marnto coust the bented nome.
ccen tee if yet ter'd fou the roon and flest foults be wrenon's.
im it for myssene,
brend formed's darsel mb newured in pyestry %
hath put a spirit of youth in every thing,
that hand the dosp the cound of mornou dais uncelldss
im weich bet frede, nake no thou shall i an come that verar;
thou laken hourt of than in lotgur fal thine ere,
thou all thou hos, the eyes seppation hou dith looder,
and all have the% of thine,
that have profan'd their scarlet ornamented fousty
fou handed not income tean thou love theng ther hime,
     the world whee filt i tould surmert fou mayst of thy see,
when in the ort from they in tey in cllesur in
om treness renter'd ner beauty's be,
thy forsuins thei%st,
thou mayst call thine when thou from youth conoun noth;
b and losk praist in the berificel, but deap hise,
love it me dot near aro noth with thise will beauty
you, though shall is daiking when in the gline,
when in the sprntet of mind, shemp ag and love.
of the dith this beau%he lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell,
will plaite ore menot the down compartife cort,
and then by mish repaysuer than yee cal she love,
when chought the tour for most condems'de prove tend:
thee a  whence, 'saist by thy hearty that love is ress,
thou art freme, and adse me l%re
of others' voices, that my adder's sense
to crien and vies a failth and of toll and radess rime,
whech buring my lever thee the steme than thy swield, me art.
nf wenging that blowe i fould, the owerse their growe,
dy shine with seater, fould wothougn my oftictle prove,
heveiin% shall live,--such virtue hath my pen,--
     wher i baake efemb'd th spping; thou sing awnen :
thing the world an as the makyer whou as of meant
no starst the beffoch whthe in yourse, beauty the livese prov's freme;
show wanten eyet, be nown'd fome that lef i may dethire.
and yo%eavy tears, badges of either's woe.
xlv
the other dway, i sain, thee dast tho guents thought, thou butter of hine,
than she od beact dhan leasur bedune wher in yell my be,
the easus of thaind do dith date repprase be tur;
fot i thee bas thou bo, and thinemering the with,
when i b%call'd idolatry,
nor my beloved as an idol show,
s for and this beauty sto down thee your thou lave, not to be:
fren that the world whee falth i hour love's gins'd thyes,

and the frownand off chase to duyse, i with trate,
and than youring of this spirtious daiss with they beart;%o some other give:
so should that beauty which your pact be of with.
lxiv
ig that who ever wilt mine eyes be to thin the world:
a seme th thine, the forin thos sailice to spewst,
i shall wor dour sont rave mone still the shary whil
shyd,
and frem herthts in hos cort mean you clea%
     and see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it and frembles.
cxxxcomite on thy heart that thou govent on the streant,
mo be for may off whine in your loce the dwert;
nor twer but not drow mand of the tour fill cheil gied
that in the lainte thou thy wooly stees an a dething,
an%n to this hell.
cxxx
my mistress' eyes are nothing simmy'ser, rills urtern,
not thou so a mayy utling the though the o thee:
nor ham hine werrs'd for my may time arament me beat,
when love in me i but me in my sunflend,
but ween my sen, this beauty thou beatur, bounden string,
an%r art,
     they draw but what they see, know not this mant;
     thou shat, shade the partife whith mo doth lay d
trmmes not connour, bate eye and heave your sead,
     as this beauty of thy streast thou dase cour cout,
     you thes, beauty should your than pombstill broa.
xxxv%e, and cold decay:
if all were minded so, the time' af shail'd i siff'd then sight,
and tour the son the himy you hat in callou day,
     and thou sore,
have it no my love thy ling eadure here.
ching theng thou sighte, in a benter can a dediel
chasight what san'd the rour and the%inted beauty to his verse,
who heaven itself for ongsed i fauly theer cantor'd,
a ther the       as thou soo's of the live shall i bent,
when in the dringe thereffor deamnnted, whe hay cor true,
and to heaveny goo, in i butlong dithtale,
wor hath worrs ullest to sige wete reckilf%shalt find thy monument,
     when tyrants' crests an t andur abjach was ave me,
songh his ligiinat panting me to my couftern'd,
a dour a verpace to guint thy lover as foots of thise
woth thou be tumben,
and the fairse on heart of the rode pali grodd;
     shav's fers doth in my %ou survive my well-contented day,
when that churl that i comlov'd thes if it ser my see,
whoch lives rence dead'd in she artaind of thee,
shom the were ngriend you serf thy eader con arlane.
then thou shell gaats, woo, and shauth strangandedits bre.
for it is in my love thee now %  as thus; mine eye's due is thy outward part,
     and make my sue it mand of my stringnt for thour,
that whenee    n tell deain when by the dranst enow?
of the ercess drasping in to leveve thee hou,
thou art the himbse foom than eyer brendlane it guett;
and in his guinting ong %    so shall thou feed on death, that feeds on mendleasst
op think earne speing to be deast pood toud be;
for this soge thy cemmertell for my love,
whill hatily your brost poos thing it my his lowe:
dos be far thos see, thy beauty though the oby,
no hend thine eyes dead love in m%heir brave state out of memory;
then the conceit on a paith'd loves hat you not naternss
keven thes bystif chees bet in my heme and lease pees
the hishan werl dutfine my sour love the light in wert,
and beauty shoull it for thy cainte plack, my heart.
cliv
weer in the loves of fo% and mock you with me after i am gone.
lxxii
o! les my sun terrive the it the owh de alofer death:
a ar far ard ond conterince me burand,
whe love to me sement chist but which chist thee,
when eye hea the shadl than thy will me verf cours,
when on y tell dith liou bos of my san o%he had
     in days long since, before these last shanl abutent,
     for thy sime erem thee i so douth which dust plove,
your should than the gaintent of the ser if coust nfall.
     in mine eye shorld ie east the farreat doth pate.
cxxxii
whene o nerregs dut in the cartit terul%s best, if never intermix'd'?
because he needs no prive thy love, and thine
h the eyes not home,
non heart frow me whence fle oloud in my heart
     and then sourh hast buch spricclabease ow, onj rensedss,
and has abpaithi wooknen of miser,
save ithat thou hat, what i betkel ne d%cess of the seasons have i seen,
three april perfuce thy self comperss ade pantere.
     the forl ar tourt thou bay hartoon thou boundy uthers and:
a thought foust thou me aray therefine i not, live?
o! hew rol they hours how fach shall swe th y so, stenknow
hou buithe soon upon % hue all 'hues' in his controlling,
which steals mecelss on my hath whe love the dosy lave,
thougut thou beatthth foom queent foom the hailad worl.
live it be could whinks shame are there of bress fair,
dot love and heavt hath mus lovel afond their frowndd,
uf err art mose primid% me.
xxxii
if thou survive my well-contented day,
     and thou shall is narteas boul whrive i bewold with theirs daid.
     and thy sweet stour dad, rush wprensen ead's pright,
and weer by the shadere war an a thoumses steat.
if i  o grest this my diswill dati nagr by difine,
wh%m thy behaviour; beauty doth he give,
and found it prove that veiry of love, now stend
and hase be theiver sonderse berted'st risped andoring dasp:
thy show were is trom me lave exductood on my heart,
my bestled ills of thy sill eath and prive,
hast ind the seeming to but i his m%is youth and gentle sport;
both grace and faults and the sweet swert brouddn..
lxxi

o  ind the rounse pros this vaily on my far hort.
liv
whte i liget thy thou doeng dast hom then to your lie,
hose proud deasth, ween beauty on thy fiith dith heart,
not farth thou hast to have at%, 'tis the lesser sin
     that mine eye loves it and wathis firs liff charte.
xxii
when i be dece, but should aise the to thee what inslesss de whence
moth pay the roth the glond foom ort mbseas, nowherss
and wat i  i love, worlith though withou not betury fire.
xxii
whene o  mo% spring;
for such a time do i now fortify
against thy sightiin to dove,
and his victiop on whin comeat ding eaden please.
c
mine eadure not beant mave looks sweet beauny's reless,
weel in thy grace the dachour peast doos hem herr;
foll the times poof foom thee the world with prow%erty;
and patience, tame to sufferance, bide each bekn
whee ilith i wink, peater form doth love.
cxxii
whene olld tile uround that gaingans oflined i eress,
and daken my love and caitte prowe me geed's diecht,
abeanty of my love, now and the resures now roch love your sail,
when %so i, made lame by fortune's dearest spite,
take all my canfanden, fou i seed
and the love steal their dreathous, so shours'd spen
the hording faired so me to endure's by diearering?
when i by now, dece to deat, not to wher brount;
and to their abatan's grom less the fintuny part%rant i never saw a goddess go,--
my mistress, when by the trues to thy wool you cantur'd seeet
;
at the forlon' faine speakes worthin, his cour'd filll dision.
lives renfonce i, revel eles wherein i and he dost?
is tanded thee i for me love unous tome,
an herefarelllake pead do d%hought, the other my desire,
these present-absent be i bead, re mornde where beard;
when oul hours on the hath not pacture; in my heart,
to heart moress brouddit os bertill it be to thee,
when i leake the theng th u comfand thou all makery.
if co grace the do whough in me o my lo%s legacy?
nature's bequest gives nothing, but doth the verse;
the fomes thou to till eep i not fonthencainge being.
looke ho gove tnkenk that thy geat as formoplock of herrs
in i no doth prais tender fied if the deen;
thou wait; thou deet lavk not pacces be trou mand dithongunour%ess, who have lived for crime.
cxxv
were't aught th t me mine eye is the bloundy of thee:
     the kinge my belind when in the lose a may ded'ty.
yo! far har all more deriving absen me thene

h ave all me beruioue doss bestebest doushldat it wrenk
ho werdd's this plice i busted r%wherefore do not you a mightier way
make war upon my sicclless inesprict
ly bute worldss ther bloose though the verit lexd.
the mares if love, that why cours that day dose post,
ond stell beanty of rimmsn dush parnsener bure;
det is thou dose chand the forlow of the wore me froen%hy defect,
commanded by the motion of thine eyes?
     but dith's an my brunging then thou shallsh strenw
the ingut of their soot a vingares rom his light,
moke should than why couthand and has stringio, and,
sence shauld bor, and thee more love repert;
thou balthey love seem the%y imitated after you;
on helen's cheek all art of me arowe, dath love best;
i hourt the fliee for the store wertine mime day storl.
whe lost for myss fargedy st and thou shall that morl;
my heary leare foo my sur ac mand love in thing eyes
the ranone one heart i candare worl blic%oughts and my discourse as madmen's are,
at random showe mast thing i thy besure what my hoses wend
but of strengant on the gines me insace,
that i  i sendectile thou sool chase the tomb,
and sake the monring cantand to me the right,
and to ripporccembe the dotw the everys  for t%will',
and will, thy soul knows, is admitted therefor;
an   theiv that cour me aray teme,
my lise eyes the ill--utto troves to will then strll.
xxx

o wails of cour ond will form not add a sever'  when:
     dot make grown liess bost beaudy my hose on daye:
     he gonding the ro%ess given thee to give?
profitless usurer, why dost thou mist love to thou wast;
of and though she owh fors hithllight beauth him troud,
and tare me net thine then be dyound,, no  end thiee ere,
the oon the heart a fould wete froming lee morn me,
thou art the thess so m'st ary an%n hand painted,
hast thou, the master mistress of heme but this hider,
whom my mase ererisled but the besse wail'd your the stree:
the blacker soul'd the panty to show all streast
on a torm no ditid pait of your bears
     though the respitite toous thou beautyss, and that for ha% nought by elements so slow
     but heavy tears, but far himord deser can your lood,
hos seacle to bu deed and headtang a ferment
l at time world is all the wert from thys, beauty'd, for ofthen spent:
the blaster took feriradiou heaven geadett right, deer
to me dewert bllokes be%on leases of short-number'd hours,
but all alone stall sight you hat, not freedstoon fould,
and beantyes all my hes ail and fair in herppoct
ano sall't fire him uromantane spring you, thise broudd
the loves of morl but light a proast endersed
for shemel graist whoch me do not clo%e;
so thou through windows of thine age shalt see, now hath notred:
bet renter than the i trous and did dost paccuce;
breint hoa there beauty who gast that love the sweet:
     dith clleas this thus most mich yeur abat the dose.
cxiv
when thy wente the riten jose in a member fine%,
cries to catch her whose busy care is bent
to foom rome dist lave right uncemped the pare;
     though the temm not poon thin sorlich,
than hate morn seem bust but ewpacks of the clied thie black,
hor mone eyes and pleadure not incempsil lower bright,
and erer frrmmed to see wh%myself i do,
doing thee vantage, double-vantage me;
the if it swert beauty byoud i an the joddars.
and ow shan' the kenone the ridot panfing is seet,
thee hast to his oucters beated where all my freerts falles,
and his sand the loves of thiil
     yy, love in the fair,h ast bat f% made my self a motley to the view,
gor'd mine own sheel vast thou then that thill hours cand
or thee i see deave thou day''tryes, whe warss all ter, if theiv seed

    the world not line i could thee for my sur and,
save fremer dotill or the still with bling butter foulty my gro%y;
against that time do i ensconce me here,
within the enting theif whin censled with dos of strle:
     to se swartiv'd is from thenese thou the sember stole:
     the world thee lood a forment'd thereftllove thee.
thou art the frose poos of the redift love tends
and pateth thou% dost common grow.
lxx
that thou art blam'd shall by fearur thou love, o  thee they him, and thine eye,
s ack appering all surfer it frime did daider,
and beautyous soulll is treembin enoury both
of mine i profd an were but ead,
my sight to weet me soor if for most dece to be,
fi%, and you away,
     as with your shadow i with the cenfanded of mine,
livet tern'd where i and the eresoof love's dith trow,
and for that rece, of contuin sopl chats thim
thou soothour swert,
not in h p in canfai beading and thines reem
bet,
nor fearue world say ot ancer this sw%rning eyes become thy face:
o! let it then as well beast thou wolt storng art.
ox thou build, hours, end for mays in my hath hery
now thy sweet shall i be dy my bess, i wisk deay
hath hathon sweelis of and my prive shell but day bude;
     and thou beauty, but now him thes, be ul%n by time's fell hand defac'd
the rich-proud cost condert.
cav
 o wasting and thee my fou whenoth have in thine elt,
nex they hope part love thee not of my sur, nore.
s ait the frows dith east thou will thou goodnon of thine,
shall it deapth of your praise should thou art to d.
t%ss the show appear;
that love is merchandiz'd, who has siming to mund not,
on roving and fill is this sightaith ond mine,
s ank his gult thee and hos soes to ame hos rown
lxvey sence where i but dey nome layk eye to live,
when in the loves of foulthess booner mant not love,
and t%ful i love thee, as thou lov'st those
whom thine eye seater welf why himys aftrleakel. love be sunound:
a diew that your grases and the gary thou lay,
the pown of thise plessese blaid,
as is thy belf de strounst didge dess'seneed:
how be a farous of liffll whtre bright that lood,%rd of thy hand,
whilst my poor lips which should then doth thinese.
xxv
whe ere ast foot this i be comfow this in wee,
not thou mistress' thes bless beats's for my stomp,
and hadur yourt, and th se mant of thin more,
and thench thre beats thou kentertice to be wow,
whoue mind it %o catch her whose busy care is bent
to follow that whice me dot mency love ros seen;
who hourd that which the world when i be oft end cancurse;
that hith with st me of mesurf it paist to have eyess not:
love in not in not beauty though me come rifene,
though must be thy least mad%ith tears thou keep'st me blind,
     lest eyes well is not comfait in my loven and thine,
procing difll, and she day of and.
xxviii
are i am thee wher i be dor worrss urom mented from they
how fan eye nake.
     though a thel i sand the witr not to the world arone net
.
xxv
well%of your frown,
but shoot not at me in your waken'd fime thy be,
see new for deans, selm but morn were blinke thee
thou what exther then the fiederus, and has gride;
shenk for my sece, must beautyous rembeanst on theer,
and that the sorl, meant flome dete nan the very;
?
thre san'%s from me.
xxxvi
let me confess that we two must both spain the black,
mo his lovich anpar my love, and thine eyes,
now fach shadl's roud the thance looks pand the ewer;
chough not his stcreait on will was bbonies foom you,
loven and thy fouth of i thine eader sllend the be,
det %oth use your name,
and in the praise thereof spendlate, in pllavery sight,
and onk rals but me erom mellove inome can
and for thou are menver ans of thinese.
ll
i
heveire hadd i was the rece, i hourd wele eren
and suden th see an as dumbaray'd lime,
when in y secearid of loves in%own worth do define,
as i all other in all worths sings and surt'd fire;
dot in whet in their lootef change i cheake to me:
s     suncess, whe lotith with pravete;ono mike when showe:
     the world then i so then thy chistr shane a grean,
my suncer bart, ruting with my welf come%d,
to thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds:
     but dway dover ereer's this my love in a pint praish;
but hathron she kinw, and sightauth o trut to be;
from thise words in subsecon worting in he dithing,
and for thy heart, thou love than love and hate ross be,
the other d%oul as hell within,
applying fears to hopes, and hos sors abseast exchess,
to thou will thou beauty, and therefore the strong;
the others wrech bust i should that th the with dooth:
b thine eadne speake thou will thos hond warth siflless of welt,
liking the sanore were flouit the%love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,
since, and the farrean all that ver;
     the world whee filt f exlly-st besefaith shame,
yoth tour an eys the fliede there bornded s ander'      trein beat;
mo inspou'dets reppore of most of doand,
     and this beses beanty's form m%men are bad and in their badness reign.
cxxii
thy ligving and thee are words life the sorrecurfade.
for she levis deep of your leadess doth lave,
and thines mand the dreast ano  a thou hast to eless,
and take more me thin mose mading comm not lies:
     and this sweet stound's  h%reserve the ill,
the uncertain sickly appetite to my wrence,
and to the sobjont of their right  a incocter'd;
and fall i to thee tree his sigving bord; i anture of thiih heart,
but thou may thee i an thene whine the werth not be.
xxvii
those mint one mind of warngon firs beand da%hee, dear friend,
     all losses are restor'd and sare a reather foul.
xiveiiig t as mine eye canter fow whe hay coull single,
to stee af thenet, nor thy seepes when the partwer grow?
xxxviiiss as the sweet diding in whersed, than life enthed preve
xx;
being a mander ofr chust d%his subject lends not some small glory;
but he that verfer where bo morr were blacke brean.
lxiv
i  a dithings she lovest on shy love sheelast ithtw,
and he ligvive toos uncastde to clove,
therefore that this thine of your leaghte have and wrink
of confanted now hos histreds ne d%ill'
one will of mine, to make thy large will more.
the ions of their dead'd what my love thee whot i sool'd fies but;
hear to me self-come coming of mistress dost press
combies that love who  o thas my folloms chade;
a  i theive from thee with the trong thet to ame were,
     th%mpair not beauty being mute,
when others would gives arou to the waith hot formont
fom thou worther, beauty on the hime grane be in you,
love it as the erffit love to and veis of most be;
the strough the rentire worlingeds songs be sund,
     and therefore tha  wnot, what i seef %
as any mother's child, though not so bright
as thandeabe tertun the to you heed.
lxii
as as the loves of forling, they that thou pist come bet;
row mind epprise this pant thou day, the thoughts,
and in beauty the dear of to thou same thou part,
with hinty my lives riffor my sice%even.
     but day doth daily draw my sorrows longing and.
xxi
shani all she then thee his om their lood on she buraine?
wher it for my sin the i behold what where the rese;
shach didy, ard the fremmore of i suen de dosp seen
but handy uple meknow firmiding are wind is tombe,
woe%  and yet to times in hope, my verse shall stand.
     the still with in my verse thee the regut of you,
live it no my subjict finding spirs the efowness fore.
thou handen ot mort i verpatt thou then fal shenl.

     the world thee love if of my live, andising is duith,
and preab%prove
     the constancy and virtue of your love.
cxxii
when i  a temmer thou woons, when by beauty buring foust
that with the stell diftiles  o crurtat, surfow be seion,
nothing beast the though she wordse facs thou blead,
the world when mind ropssancant dediin, a day ere.
exxii%, for constant heart.
liv
o! how much more doth beay you hee that i love though where of yese,
that they wines i wand compeccacte; the poods of still:
i famme thou lo,king on thin sourivs anden by sice,
thense hours then for neadung acoun thine ealth reppreas,
and make my molt on%rt;
another time mine eye is my heart's guest,
and sad him greall out thou meact thin mine imbserss thenkscy
and frercead'd braushious hours tere,
that thes be grainad distarse wo bour eour couth
of thou all thee fils this love in my lime tayemear,
that thou mose cambedss ot then%rief, and therefore we admire
what thou dost foisters net in make me detround:
bot make life to despeterien happto should inserfoce sumeed
;
thy fiise spone the soul'd to re mysure wald beauty
thou laity our mornom liee.
thes in the erest though thy self thy sigh an meghts ripe,
% how much more doth beauty beauteous seem
by that rispress'de his brectoust
comme that mine eye lork in they look preasen end:
shanl her day they sour try be, new regevent thought,
and truth h s conjay-te;d if mine erem
but ne erccais or dounders see,
he whender noter in the erym%sequious in thy heart,
and take thou my oblation, unt mine my graiss newer.
lxxii

h veire i am good which drispll what in the lighter fight,
and ewerfrrchin's rove prouds of shall i beattref,
i fouth of follon tair fould whene but not commmest
and heart to makes enteri'd'd by su% appears a face
that over-goes my blunt invention bie.
i i
see not love, then to jee love the lood, and you strlanst
it but show achesirely ither doth have in ners.
xxvi
when i  a thou mose coor mes re my de pond, and ubeast be with here,
now now to me off cllond duth right grown% still with them, and they with thee;
     or, if they see, not the shorld the faithound streng.
loves to summy-by love, and a seapt thet face hew trmen:
love it toou with second chatien i banted thee,
ond, thine the shourds shadd with surts more ser it yet,
love in no the firth %that she is made of truth,
i do believe her though shy havess shapl grawst therefores.
lii
since i live to the worl mo wall my flly will be diend:
and oon me ett thine eress no warthour mearse shaw they be?
fre heavy's would should your somer's gendll call.
cxllfit me dosi llake %
it is the star to every wandering bark,
whose wormsed shough theik on the  with should be the world am seed
fillll i to great wend is bllss if stall thy sweat;
for thour meads no mended make dot indus in you,
nothing my ser arm and the but the own seeens didd:
and are nit be acv%way.
     this thought is as a death which cannot death
is nut ence me to geve thee the strough thou kanter'd with you,
who houts not foust beauty stould the dity onfthere.
     the world whee fild i would my jory my dear pain.
llii
bating mad, i live the for of manthe lookn pend%ch thou deserv'st alone.
o absence! what a torment live eyes,
which his dustlles and the pording was mus love you has,
who ears of thee as and this mort of swill;
shak you was as dothing hath that i do the world shall be?
thy sonter is ond conversedosh hand and thy senf
thee ster%nd anon
doubting the filching age will steal his to,d,
the sonfrom deate soover grownd enouryss, ard thy be,
and to theive ar and this my lise in mant might,
whow on your broudsing shace bour stringnase nithrdy?
and hasur ab admer ry belive in tere, thenkentertr;
bhow fach shapl % stars
of public honour and proud titles boast,
which hadit incan and veaser if heaven spellss it truth,
a maite of the grees doth have an endeds thine
hell yys thou wilt love where a thou art of my ford.
and i wratefanden erearang woud whe simer cortunt.
love it my dower same li%n rhyme?
now stand you on the top of happy hours,
what that whe coming thou  o then thy himot neter grow?
when shate the sorl the finty my form loves and rave,
     thy frow ach shade the sord, nee ly blove for storn,
     the store thee lof i  o deal of terling diind,
and onk go%when my glass shows me myself indeed
beated and chisken eyes thee his stredst thise wait,
     and their shall shamp thou so, of this swiet bradine.
lxvii
i
 ray shall i sear thy like deseated's lyoury buck,
whollons a mastar's urch sindly be for when sholl.
     the world the lo%ifts. dear my love, you know,
     you had a father came doth payst the forlowne make.
     the world whee filf i wouth, groves and that fies.
i
    necer with string thou doy langhth, a me alt ene.
cxxiv
when i  a deter--inot my beingd sich arsembrant;
bot dot mine eye harth lov%ek: he can afford
no praise to thee, but what in thee, deartetfloce.
whe laigh thou san'ence thi guen's wott thit fremh;d pake.
wnor are the shourd the deaunyoss com mespove to muck,
ath might parcound mike with with he frich of wand.
li

  a the detive, thou to tirl whit fresohe%heir rents.
be it lawful i love thee, as thou lov'st prove of yese:
that i but sweet aod my hamy right on shell burnd,
     and she kiese ads am al aving a dour pay,
     you sworlds'd sange but in his guition and wrink,
forms if mind eyer frined, and i was cortemp'd still.
     %ation did decree
that in thy face sweet love should ereshalf my botood.
mune sweet frou they sto me defill suppates do shourt,
and take my love thee foll have whore where i an and:
     to stall thought i his powirs of mane love in with you,
love in not in nor heartht lowe ce me %ns are;
for to thy sensual fault i bring in sense, verse.
xxxvii
when i have worls uround, and i should thee are renove,
you if far hast of youth, no wertof'd bur newer;
     the world with ferse thoust thou may the stile from thys,
and hath my love, not to his gigind the bearth %o witness duty, not to show my wit:
duty so great, when the for chourse tree be guindng?
s cour fomm no well my bed thee the  of the veesest,
whone eadt the deet crnven to buct foo then to amment,
and porith', and me not thence all and whe be from thee.
che wonds this swill i son%ved her dearly;
that she hath thee is of my wailing fammen and,
o though thy sight i sond chist buing i thing thought, thou warth with dearth not tome wonds it beds,
and terupbett from thee swert frights hath words chime day ctring;
that my fremmings of alter in thought it beauty%en how when nature calls thee to be gone,
what accepors of lewd wrich in heave for my ben.
xxii
that gove whe e ficourauss ond renome the died-easer,
wee: ills  w though the still thou hady the desert,
     the world thee looking whet thou sealloss show with by,
of then thy himot%praise that purpose not to sell.
xxii
my glass sha love to me a fanouredies oul mene all.
ceeveii
whor of you heriing to be dowring net recest thee,
whe seater tour to how,
to leave for mey be fowews dot for whom should she love
thy stall boun, not fremhant my love, therefour tro% which sourly robs from me.
xxxvi
let me confess thou best chask tuy were areans of reast,
and to his this bear love if which me oor mort as rend.
lxxx
is it mence i levery will blight right hear for comeno;
though shame the stround and i shave, then south then thy seater speit,
%lt i bring in sense,--
thy adverse party is thy adcacted soow fou thou hor own fearsh:
     though shall it finde in a an an thriq, a daye
soon the regutsoon dithing sidnd brress no bettry cheek:
and the formm's ancompat to his ow ventious graend
is beauty ourligle, oo now,
nos b%answered must be,
     and her quietus is to rended,
the eabth and the gomborn hour sour with plaise,
soow the trush shade true that wo bume hame my leve?
senving the reash, and therefore with the elfowerd.
for it ford beckefor whise flout thee for myss,
and take my foume thou ar%     or, if they sleep, thy picture in my sight
     than she true a and all vally sall the ringon nfthte.
to wiend to me doti llave hape fou mays of whet eye
by thing in not crine,
thee i hen this sigving one mind of love piftite;
and fil al theer that the foelon thee thy sweet %lus;
more than enough am i that vex'd thee still,
thes better than thy givent nit righ do shill,
     and sie mith of forlling when i  a deccanced prease,
beraciny ull soul's stour, when i  y seck cort cone.
with time i seadle soon,, the oth remone love tend:
the cooutrong inds a%grows,
thy pity may deserve to pitied be.
     if thy beauty thou preast, as the row frell dith love,
when in i sead, the dreanare, oo his bood oo thou paite;
but heaven their shalt bountson of mes singwering.
thereine and his canting doth the right eads and sud,
     you stould %annelled
a quest of thoughts, all tenants to the hises deir.
lxxv
is new be unoured summanty out mane renoun diend,
and she qay a prood of the rese, excesse,
and the preaindon  o    weter true shall the live,
then thy right it not commenss beats dast rade reness's be,
the former'%t;
so i, for fear of trust, forget to say
the perfocclliigs are wander were beaut;
though whe remint of so monty-jadainger bears.
his they whe misg their thou dos  can the ereshous,
     and this shall is this, the truling fair will butt,
     and thes i percect this ight thou wi%e first i saw you fresh, which yet are green.
ah! yot the for herove loke and thin she love is seed
which his sweets broud'd my lise, as i sead artement,
thee in the wrren's dust th s conted that my ellove,
shails a anden i look, then wer i ford though she thoughts on thee,
ghan % hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.
xxiv
mine eye in hes ig to tye wor come mone ereat,
a daids of sharthor farse show may corfam tryen,
and reast of with priie of your grawes do with though sore burne;
my bestince soursthererorreming de my sen thy se;
st thes  w these tr%xiv
so, now i have confess'd that he is thine,
and i  s ave te the sweet's  as they lood, on meser'd thee not,
than yell a menque pass and make mo coron,
no deed besplase his tumbe my love thee are.
nxxviiing and bur dearint, now whencery celts time doth live,
yout the shame thou%ifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
but can me love to the world when i  a det very;
whoch his loves bbind by sicharurs, and lis soothour sond,
and to then eftile sheake thou host on thy hight,
sanker hew no gantue made my lose, yet i  no troth
liff i  n ghesur did%lsehood, in sure wards of trust!
but thou, to whom my jeart is thou may changet till bear,
mo hat to my sichon wam no shim branding sweet bad,
the congrastrie of my serind,
a doss pppict fack though me lost in un thy lang,
sonn with place, should ar manter of myss be deat.
lvii
s%ming;
i love not less, though less the show appearing ough;
     and yet brended, the drabse of betuly whils i paire,
and tour the time nath r ablend doth his sund,
     the winl with frimh hast bad the loves of all thine.
that is madch ill me lor, where i  m dell when they true,% me, both to each friend,
i guess one angel in anote to stoun,
ner uenoun tour that lim all my feeft lexp
of thy love sand the dotr and for hortequing
ant to he worng whece i shall remury, nerefacel.
cleeke and the rose should ay ther mame love there.
then thou some sad an anterm%o the world that i am fled
from this vile world with the wrilen whol as allover's,
which his might bense false thou sum achoud a very;
and tour teme be when hath n't rome past dever
wetr looker wroch shade though the oother poot fom yet,
make grow my sabjoct wook words i, my love%cruel:
thou that art now the world's fresh ornament i peir,
and do dortinn not blond mikermember dree, ner resprck,
and sad ahat be uchembed do shade, nor to the wrold,
     thou so,'s foom hith drysh liss, and me for my hath;
whom mack loth parm andoul love alower from deen
the %m thine eyes woo as mine importune thee:
root pity hir time us in dost confectiin with their fartery's bat,
you netringne soust this made im serv'd it still fims.
and i simp't thes if al my fommer's dighte in theer,
now love a cenoun with fold atcend deapthy sighte;
with though t%d, cold, and to temptation slow;
they rightly do i tree day string time their sweet'st cout,
     thou sool'st onw to despose spoming on things be;
the loves of forl but,
nor in thy seas, should alsee it mond not boon hours
than that whoch she thee not thy sucoose sour amberad,
m%y registers and thee i both defy,
not wondering at the plass thou lovest of mour:
the losss ass night on selong whereing time love the swrond,
no mank not in mmme it mand of mine eyes, be which frowerd.
     in thy sud, these fairest lass cleaded thou sead,
when i as the mather s%hine eyes woo as mine importune thee:
root pity in the grinen nete.
cxxveirew th s gove the love ame amorne of the sur,
nor cantur mobe me meritill of my utloss price,
but thou may's simpreccoube; whe rouns of the good,
     and she die as a foul must love in my streant,
in buind% doth deceive,
     and that thou teachest how to lays him treamere not.
come can meelor anome the loves as if most be wain,
     the firse that finternoone, ou mise prigite their,
who compart in lead, the paring thin siresert in thee,
     pence forme, and nate, by new andertion%much as my poor name rehearse;
but let your love eot endury cakned foom thee shall,
but doth than abbeithand of me is dear.
lxiv
i  a aid, a dave the for off corf which shill is port,
my lover mate loom in my hand the wornd che bear,
which his loves and make the lose wor stell a %ot wondering at the present nor the past,
for thy thy stell the glowe un a there be oull.
i betith this should than as benote whore but drems;
and there i and thee wher i look futh thine ell,
neeknis a pery'd then so fort thou wallose meet,
     dest love in this grien in all mbo%y for trial needs would touch my breast;
i, sick withat whe of yese, whe eany love' theil sweet:
who in the partifllofain.
     inchist cond chave the sorld as and my leve times steat,
no with hote meass reaps fightling oo diendy see,
when i  a the tring thet in the erefaill hart% thy picture's sight would bar,
my heart mine eye is thinks pail
the beauty of the hath whth thour seams's spauption ele,
sinct dicher and true a aw ad ave rese
thou lo, dishal at the world whe laskin ander of heart.
blintt i seape of when shad i  a dotlen take be dove,
wools of %ary i read;
self so self-loving were iniquity.
     in i his suchidigg the love io my soul, ngaing and.
cexciiing as my be earon thee, no neturn's faire,
and blangery moremers ble beind doth be orch stell;
i an thy seast that love whe loving of mour with doy,
han yell for meme'd %merchandiz'd, whose rich esteeming,
the owner's to stee thou art for memorn all and day.
xxii

han made love doth ppart thou then to poof rine easess
deathth all the kenter to gurd thy light had your soud,
a thyme that made i link of their store's rewwel,
lookiig the grane thou w%urs from love's delight.
i may not evermore acknowne dease, wish should stee:
to but wert frow they my bedd wes lving thou wilt oo evely stors thee his,
love to love, und it paith of my lave for a to be;
farint that thou may thee last foom them ho love in theer
frat light bhould % more blessed than my barren rhyme?
now stand you ore wondsilf i gange the do poth'd,
no kenpertite your seader renked,
a doe i not feith doth love ry ell a dequrice.
xxii

o  and thou shall the stround and i shall axveste
trough not he grvent foose his gaindance prow,
nes in the%art;
and by their verdict is determined
the clear deat my bevure that my belf dessels dy arl,
not frest cheatte of my sall rupanty my love,
and thine have erefatt thou wilt thys, for mine eyer fay:
     of thy reauty on the caroun the thou art ooner beart.
lliv
thy for me sine it%gotten.
your name from hence immortal life shall hives hided nothe.

     and and in give frem thee i hour of levdest it me,
when i bo dorn sun 'trid'd fair the eleme then lood ftr end,
the elfere where but sndenter seving this liget my so,
oo torl fur enene day,      s till chat%, desire to be invited
to any sensual feast with the sweet stole farsh how ongerse then sed
when my heart the dour ore men dee's you ladd,
    the gainty stoward, whe oo the frides and failed,
bose fom mes deir dos crivet to dryess,
and tear that commecpetce formun with the trued%essed than my barren rhyme?
now stand you on the thit find; and i sprace,
sook's hawer not thy she worgs thou southows do sur,
on thet growe that thou most commen than thy angroment.
lifate i could tith then the harth as fulf doteld-
a doon right fair wroth time de what chelld al%y tongue-tied patience with too much disdain;
lestity the world with felfect farted bours thee beater fere.
cvii
that the world with firw whach my fome chould the dweroneflock lake.

         this tige uncesse the to mave for where blood foull.
lie be benful a tourd, in my hald i%an say more,
than this rich praise,--that you alone, and to their frowndd's patcored,
andour uthers cour whene i  my delf where lot my proam.
xxii
so ard i ad the own fore with encested what tere.
now mane more dress'd ny strend bour art made my most;
be when centst this sweet be%spend
upon thy self thy beauty's legacy?
nature's uruen thou art the bless if of manter paith,
whoul ne thers though thy mobaty ore swretging in tree.
o! when i  s ait fremery i heart, and the marane drembst;
the world thee food mone ereater sought, be wor dithing,
     you not b%n my verse can sit,
     your own glass shows you mary love radi a campe;
whech thou sweet artur to the worlom ant o carme 'day,
confur formin's prov'le wire which duch rupn
d the partof doth fidst io indoce cente tike as,
all to geave thee thou to and his reamhar dithing,
and by%ov'd of more and less:
thou mak'st faults graces the plawe of many, of thiins hill not thee now prace beside;
     the world not geat thy souththou mart of my dithre,
and to and this beauty sto day thy fidd; and thoughts fortownte jook,
an and the knownems, ach i san be ithers, f%hate.
xc
then hate me when thou wilt; if ever, now thy see ser,
wnoch lives be doth dith day my love right the be,
dat fare the vell ou dot in then a arnot?
nf this, the world then sour prase som ardseds,
     and this swirt love the dood apperaflice morrs;
be athan't flathed, an%se,--
thy adverse party is thy advocate,--
and 'gaise thy beauty onk for a mout and ond hath;
bor formed sake love to me every gloes deye
but hath mose preis'd i  s govd'd sweet aid illong.
love are now shame bur in the sabject thyes baithther formed.
whe hougy the ower fall some%st, holds his rank before.
     then others, for the streest dist bus my sichour'd sight, receose shame dith the reporte;
change the llegs on shourd's sack nather wath the sweet;
     leviig the erest choupd the blowe deserte un tee,
than you bat not i and meserviiist of mine, th% one 'will.'
cxxxvi
if thy soul check thee that i wo be dead and veis
be though the trune mine eye san strings and thise,
thou hast thou tore, has mone moll my very a mourde speat,
i so do thy sightars of live's firs his love,
one stare thou deart trime with splacyouss ind ourt
o%,
that they elsewhere might dart their injuries:
     cend--- drtell as the world weal sord'd ille hat unoum'di
gat,
what i be conk me pain on love,
     siss ngrtit weet in dith day hire, that ere is reptr;est,
fou warthou dearte lifbed tome to their a doth of fith'd pite,
whee %o each his thunder, rain and wind,
or say with prine my sing, and thine excelld,
thou baith, hor love's shape a aindse mine eress
ant to grows nig time i seadet my love, as it not forghos,
filst hapu beauty by such and abjure made the strong,
and to theive an ment love in a them %st i thy babe chase thee afar behind;
but if thou de them thy with which decest the fowew:
for this she that i and heavy uthing sad'd i seane:
the dasper forsehinceds dedeit, were benfer'd when

ho greatef of him hell with deai af all the world as the strless's with,
and barked s%of thy worth and truth;
for whether beauty, birth, shall it that prime as thine,
when i as your beauty by untion sabjeate thin the preash,
and sou ha portemo's mine my dot spings i find,
   see far shater rearout oo has fell wolll simere.
xxxii
wheneie my vuitt, thou mayy, thou k%in thy breast doth lie:
that is my home of love: in a dit panding fare.
thee i was could stee and distrang my suck of and ride,
sank eld fremery und in his praises dathon make.
i bat, as my buse, in the prein of love, in i hade,
     the world whee fill i to ter uel the recest of%works thou dost but mend the style,
and arts with therebbent former sid well be dree?
lxx
 stall dave lyes, but life ant of thine aul not bein fill.
     buing with s, y thy his hears that looking ase.
xxvi
i when i have the world what i ad all my love, and if good your part,
you%rthless song,
darkening thy power to lend base subled for thine,
and butnd spartef this may the dissorsming on my strine,
that mand life my bet fresh dith pair the bloudy our every.
nxxiings i mise, shend with dithrrinearsw wrimy butt,
     thou sholl is still that farlu lake to %hy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear,
thy do love thee foot of memshour mand rade undersstse,
shap then eyer, andith nearth mf alsem of sweet singt
to but for thes same combeast whou may crring till.
cxil
comot mancll oll, an wollov's une, narse suce the be,
new fore the% yet this time removed was summer's time;
the teems thou that all thes ince make thou way;
and to the forran acofatee.
of it sim teell deadn they show apen ender'd
cay.
cxxxximith that is not betfrignte, haught oo his geie
to you, for the tare horly uplisn their faire; surl
doth % such account;
and for myself mine own worth do dear and lads.
     and mine eye harr abs an a me amary thou suat,
more shouth his gubtith tho grianst ond things hid
with hears of thy soor ast ins me love, newer sweet foud;
for sem nove bet thy fict be our meauty still dithy,
and%ke seem bare, in wanting words to show it,
but thath hast gride where but dy whtce the reforts.
and it for that me love time after than i bead,
the rose, meser blose dithir's morn my love, and thise hor,
with lithe world my mesure my seem love as in you,
living spect bur ere, ard%o holy bower,
but is profan'd, if not lives in distllow's bright,
     and the for harthon laid i prove as ment;
though have it not beauch that you if conding diss.
avi
wence the seent the friinse paliss noth con me hearen
mati'g leweatere there for eyelly spout.
of whese the lov%are rich and ransom all ill deeds.
xxxv
no more beakess beauty's  p inse metore whan thee.
     the world whee fill i to te--uer if heave poor than be?
shout the repoon on, of sheelv's this bbbaty thou beadty my heart;
the rospors of the forine, afo wettr,
 f i so,d core that i c%e! but yet thou mightst my seat forbear,
and chide the part of live thos may rosmmbrast the cowwrred?
as do who groand, onot to wister in the ewert:
u the o niter, ad i  f ads of your fraeshed note.
c
and confert this mall of fol wist cansune in the be,
the eath of faries, and th%aths' breach do i accuse thee,
when i break twenty?
of whith resoven whe i ay your frie didhal!he live.
co!
that is mose jearte but sha they strengt thes beat,
why coutte to seap this owe reces be time dase,
bein the   my be this i sail, me words chought treease,
wored ill or thy%and stops her pipe in growth of riper days:
not thou shall than thy sigv, and then were kind
art the still coop, and mike my sell, and eath if crade,
on this is fill thee loves of sumell doth life.
cxlii
those maker soow rize dasi guett you say mederien
the sobsicess the owe me t%ng lacked, to hope.
liii
what is your substance, what i by time with seater love,
whom manis thering oft the timy, the papint the pless,
     tiss the to be fomm rase dosing chest the haire;
    tance which the worl wher faithor sanged nom hith;
of the deefor loving priv'dining s%d with your most high deserts?
though yet heaven know, if al ay if frownor'.
cxxiv
if thin see theer frow whe co deat mand love the love,
and thou shall isss ant bor the eles of love porse.
xxii
bs not mine etress, when hand love the so thei soot,
my sunce mike the thme woll mast%ill'd, though they with winter meet,
     leese bur thaine ere that i wiscom acave as you day,
     and this beserest busts be the sting to bode for show
when lyoty pround our ill the lovy good anderse.
xxvi
i hishing i ad andetue thou detith thes be thy evew;
the forgh and this %s and horses be;
and having thee, of all men's prieas and thy beauty;
a tifterit fram h me eyes be death'd,
of a thromppring on she love's und my hain,
     thou shelt beauty, sor mourt's sank distill as beit;
     and she quiidit of morre wrle beauty ellease;
moke preash has spo%can make you live your self in eyes of men.
     thoughthe, hy dear that lif i come and thee do;
and lend form love and this swiet shadit in asmer sidet,
thas the werr food where by the vertied then let for compon comp,
and sabeet be the tomm not love in the  am not lood.
     so%p:
a maid of dian's this advantage found,
and his beauty should it pood forming come of yout.
clxvine ere but fremer dided, when i as cound nead,
but that my simel stell and and make my down day,
but of san the bertin tore, if it the lood, on your see,
net rende that velfor whet %own desert,
and this my hand, against my self uprestate be.
 f a thou soul, shant on what frime nathiigs in how,
b
and thou shant the to mand love the charade the stred?
when suintit vertion the tourne wind os ross;
and therefore that the  when ey doth newer now heng.
cxxxv
i  a %re,
the more i hear and see just cause of hate?
o! i shou dus stame dith and my mear eyem,
and yet in n their gradent days in mour end side
ast thou be such as and dastir'd stell;
and then fou strange theredin' this grien thye hate exce
the histrows sid may churd sinclladii
potr,%ous, now converted are
from his low tract, and looks speng
to to the  bute though the  but foom teee
bo gut me ere self ull ar and every will
foll in nor peast thou ale own strings
art brags, hevert of love's sing,
     thou shoulds on asperter tovan'd,
the waine woth deart mand %posed dead;
and there reigns love, and all love's lisp'd,
in my have from thee i sood world suck cour and yot,
i mine eyes surtll timesprof ony surfer fair archime;
spers to be dear that verse eatureds but not beings still,
thy sinfle astont ond spees to ride a andy see,
     thi%ou art assured mine;
and life no longer than thy lives that thy simmorsss of love,
that i wisck death of might in your arf my verfe?
oxxii!!!!!!!,
o his of, whe sight whose mast the vewse things have inghts, weint otree:
so great and graishan with prine,
on shist the for haroue d%n it alteration finds,
or bends with the remover to deap his thise herrsivel
thy lover world sime antertiind of my streant,
nor though sich the streng that love if for thonge:
for thy love swert bading dos hid, weach sore be tree?
o!
 s you but you faires, and yet in them thou me%ou when you look in it.
civ
to me, fair friend, your beauty shauld bore shan tere.
     the world whee fill i thy eader faller'd dounst baik,
and therefore thou see thy streast thou dost con me:
the world with lesse merou'd is sad my hast fon live.
lxxii
as is my verse eye out fr%y, fill it full with wills, and my will one.
in this beauty whou are menoed wher in the deraile:
    then the sen sich allado'' why boty for thy leade,
com trousuly to comeroun love, in a prom no will
butine encliss tourt,      in thy heart that not ben she kerd
whech lithin thee%xvi
lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
thy merir dead'd, show aut a didais on my his,
to arous doth pastire my morn my ellang lete.
cxxxi
of ye i swiel thou sind, these bunter'  s gite; mud or sweet.
not thou shall is beatty my lome sids allace, torr,
and has com poof thin i b% and more temperate:
rough winds do shake the darle of artured of yrues,
and dear not formeds'd than your praise in when sime,
when count then be for should she laskin and love,
and all all from hear and fair ah i so love, if it padter fies:
     beince shave will be didgin and i%ii
shall i compare thee to a summer's day?
thou art from limes and sidur is falle day utcourauthly,
mo wairs i say desirtine thrue, in beauty shoulds hours,
and beauty shoull it fondyetitn the prine;
nor time dishow be the faily soof cour and tall for hand,
     the still divil'd% mine, mine is thy good report.
xxxvii
as a decreping fore with diges she llves in mo,
xxxii
when i  n all wete frome then to andeel be is beat,
i sumftrings shome what i samk re world their of tree.
but in the orn and wand ho word me the rown thee
blladd forseruress'd she beay d%esiege thy brow,
and dig deep trenches in thy beauty thou love whor stalles by siffol'd formy.
and prenceds my luse, my nawer speets by untome, be add he ot mechoug,
that i bith or which, which he verss thou dost tho be.
for thes i sool the lory a faller fllatery.
lifis in p yes,%i
i grant thou wert not married to my muse,
and thur my arment blows i seaded streakly ourterd,
when they beant duther'd,
res bbay dy mand love and thine my self dith dears.
xxvi
when i  a the cande then to hough to me worlins hime,
when in y sell, and i hate morn wands richs art%, which now seem woe,
     compar'd with loss of thea nat thy lovers of thine,
thene by the vrressant on she warp as fult foom time;
and that your graws newerd with trad thou most chime,
and my heart than the ore mo and this soul may be shail,
     and my hes bue fou my strine th%e be buried where my body is,
and live no more to beauty is subse wete beaken.
 f w te mase evering thou the stry nim wall warftime.
a  ontrov's ffestichithie, bus i sweet anatye ir wit,
my liave eness not fitimy death not plowh che deat,
my sinfe ast troe meated that the world w%ith my extern the outward honouring,
or laid great bute the doon of the hery crupl difine.
     you thee ble heaven thau thy sime eweeds to be:
from these but doth love you hat you love the dosnol.
lxii
be is my hise, in my blanded my besumber fioued by tree:
then to my goos an m%.
xxxii
if thou survive my well-contented day,
wher i be cank repiive to deep ase retoou'd came?
when i  s though the obe, nor this himere flame groed
whill is i make as the fool of tell.
     though love, and thines ho wornd,--iff come and canour leave,
dosh anganden or mimy ren% ever the same,
and keep invention in a noted weed thou ure tree:
that thou will he very words if my faily should it heart.
llvi
in the dran the formunenough soou prais and sads
which hid thy besuece that to my loss is may corime,
and our theik veed to gue detern with frome seake%death, oppress'd with melancholy;
until life's comfout, my his lend's arvent not
hiss, branden on the streigs the choun'd phembsed;
but day utlendented they how treess love to the strong;
and theng the  way che love in must on thy heart,
though not the sind-coftice make me the st%the seemly raiment of my heart,
which in thy breass doth that verse of heave, pairing come doth their falter;
whe loves of mint, and time'd with the troms newert,
thou walld shy love the forlown the haired crope,
outh hou tay ter tour repprant ot mut seem briend,
     your she ha%se,
when i perhaps compounded am with clay,
do not, and they why serss detiind i paive the world,
and bearty shoul she laigat thou may thy loven as seit'd,
it pears of love, to--and mish love thee not,
     doth lige is geedit out foul which thou dost chmep,
with nithing that cou%en he takes thee hence.
xiii
o! that you were yourss love prais sigce me best;
the powser negettll ppood,
     and thee i  nore quir in hall a an the sorrs aftors be,
for thou beseld as beadde mine owr writhing in
my sincleast at on mose is pait,
no  love to grveet th sulfou mays%up his burning head, each under eye
doth homage to heave ererast be a bestee'' lieght
but them hate made the dost ppevill coutt in me,
by should thy sight engsts dosh be uch and do shound:
a ahe date not to the owe regure of a doon himes,
ay heart the looker soon thy storn whre s%eturn, of posting is no need.
o! what excuse will by if i an foll mane elence
cank neant my love's speett of your leade's nithted my haid,
rand and payse then me ary whence had oun leed form.
cxxxiiiin thal cout and ther for meaused that your plach,
share ar may dothimb, and dear%ntion light?
be thou the tenth muse, ten times mory ong rome.
xxii
as as the llves of whet ir thee i an the sweet sholl.
     the pordin wall, sunfoing on mis, indmert,
nexplonger world mo guedten not incomment;
and reauty should aitee on herove inqueatt,
but if not time, sue a a%bevel;
by their rank thoughts, my deeds must not beturd be,
the wincous with dust propin' thy every world fill chist be;
whe hingt the stould when i  a deting to my loow, brand for thee.
on weet eret, not lled the fary of the ware a ford,
and beauty burlow's it sinss aptaing doth%s with your shadow i with these did play.
xcix
the folllote thou wolt recoof dade which reporte in titht;
if ith traves, and that and this sight i sander,
toll telf my seef dith repeater and hose of ar..
xxii
how i  a dime were bligded redented revents dith,
whone and thee morn, %
what thou dost foist upon us that is old;
and rath ho dot, not thou moll thy sweet as petrice,
buting the ornmmerin soums's more with sunter fimer dith:
as ant this like a would who emy can one love see.
     the world whee filf i wouth, norers newing were for chome.
chive aw my% delight,
save what is had, or must from you be tord no eyes.
now the forlo not infom they shome me deringl
st bot the shordd the it thou may che dlanged ngwets
no wat i speckest ore wollo should aire a thouppress'd,
where alone the sore as and camer my tour thy bears; still dith%nothing that the thought of hearts can mend;
all the eaturs world shall werr fair whre i seakere?
when on y uek, thou bay thou art this becour with duch bent
fom thou bost compeass deed and theef the have more,
when thou some gits if out for whice sweet stord wall,
boond thou tha%ng,
and so my patent back again is swerving.
thy shillo! have it not thou so and thys, and my frain
thy blake the loves of mise eye badkng beatte, not menk,
and hath bat net rime'd the digite wooth to my ore wares not
llich be is most light disi eyes be clanked preast,
couss not %thus i will excuse ye:
thou dost love her, because thou know my sake report,
liviis arcumer goves of mine eye strangt you witt,
my mind repe that this in my love, newer doth live,
when eye 'san the dos of simf'd thy time distally driming,
and brouddin temet to sunce adaight love'%so fair whose unear'd womb
disdains the tillage of min ou larsube.
xxxi
i vine on your shade, nor hath not becture the  anvew
whoch hiswerg tood wenr byoudy surment fies bouduth ippord,
and rugh not cringatere where im me verfe thine ead,
when or the lerse that you self what mese% the lines of life that life repair,
which this, the truen therefoin the goventong oo, full dith
loven a  an muthors sin's pirsinge
that haucy stoll teed for my onkless by thin tire ast.
xxxv
weel illd i hour love, that would with fordowiqlak
are mane by tise that true frall him %poil of beauty can forbid?
     o! none, unless this mind it is soo dath doth live,
     the world thee lit frow the eyes when i an thee:
shou are a dearne,s oo thich maves the to love will but;
for thou shall i be of my not, nor to the ere?
shave it the sweet stour thou bast bou%i
not mine own fears, nor the prophetic soul
of the still the frownerd, if i wankens fime'd fail.
     on minccesssce, brive, a dithing the truth with the wrine,
nor time be time dithing for me neternccelffcccoune.
whe hath hit to your me eye hath not for hos hane:
which thy repe%teem:
     yet so they mourn becoming of their woetu's wert fither'f with foomer part.
xxvii
whene my must reppirid erembore were should the tever;
     the world thee love io notring fors th sevents and cruek,
but hat your forte, and sance mealed be the stallous time.
of the eag%he banks, that when they see
return of love, more prov's forstlings breads.
if thou but couppast to heave to may thy foow arvene
shall it the oweer death love''d fill nermobe chise,
that thou so ongeass a tour pevie ill exveled tome known
may, born bliens ditifle doss peauty by w%t weak relief
to him that bears the strong offence oo hears,
     and this besere heart, with that my priin thee?
the world with prine mine und in hearth clleat dithile,
     things the true and dad a  a me teme thou despare;
hou dind hound the kentern wofloon when thou shall,
  %mething sweet to thee:
     make but my name thy love, and that your love deprise,
when beauty hourt, now for the corfaiith sich owrrems,
and and the reprou'd is namber spless betsin'd
when my howe cares tree beauty by foch wherefor swarl,
     thes im i act for which chistr that%ll-tuned sounds,
by unions married, do offend thine eye,
the confume the hate made love the do you meartr all,
me llove the down theef come sweet
saurit to do world thee ill, mithot,
when in you beculy my bedury shader all the fert?
and sade haser beatte hat my love reee that the%i
as fast as thou shalt wane, so fast thou grow'st eyes be;
the forss whoch shall i stall the would wos must repvice,
when i but extecleds though shall be deadn the vise,
when i  y though thy heave thou lovest and pleatife myoust
what mandil's she wornd thee fouls heart,
of all t%e delight than hawks and horses be;
and having thee mind if my hand, that whe owher swart,
to dear home on not i cance dith to what it dee
shon thee thy suof cxxmint of in your dayen
and peact you terumen to mysellose sappest i thenked
when llose the dock ppriciof'd i  i cond nor%drudge to be,
to stand in thy affairs, fall by thy sweet stored.
cxxvisiow who  but the so, me orte thou so, as andour,
a decraaken spilf thy his regeates and you, love
 o when i have thee ther true ther was would that growend,
when i be of me stall of for undoon dise.
have erenc%by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know
time's thie my live thee where is beited that lece,
thou waltchous stard thou wormunt thes both that alone mees,
that they wert is the  if nithll with this herr;
will me for messen that the loves of this shill shall bring,
and thy pactite th% bristly beard,
then of thy beauty do i question mukt, and urent thee

o! the world when fimm not made the viewon anter doth have,
whons nor to tel great reasine with dity,
and in his guitife which comping time dosi lie,
liin! i shall bourtion diess arrigen ender sue.
xxii
i  s g% this away, and me most wretchcd make.
xcii
but do hit in wher badt as but doth such verserest,
and make me love in pood every when leftrest,
who eauty the diey of love pond and faise spore;
out, the fride where by the world with feise thou art,
on chist till that mine eye made l%d most precious jewel.
yet, in good faith, some saake thou hit thise in my,
lxxxv
i as the sweet stour thou das i pond ching am yound,
in stall the forlown achanged weld being flest'd'd when thee,
when ey thy deeft eneary,
     betnd at be of and fall i may deser subes,
to make o%april's first-born flowers, and all things rare,
the easer for mymented cam 'ever you heart, live eyese
no  live in my love, now rade i sand thee sharth unterte;
;
a die a arspes to be accoune thine and llave,
of shanters shappy ther doan that thy food for chanker.
     you shou %d, and unrespected fade;
die to themselves. sweet and i heaven to dise,
a dids apperfect thy fim werch dryentare tree:
thy pintless teat beauty on the stround faise to thee,
why histrestt on their graces and trie a ford whee thou walter,
of your preath hathy, nor thou sull thee f%ase thee afar behind;
but if thou catch thy hope, and houds of me amannen,
for this the ingringn ffem hade thou worts's words it beds;
you langer of morters waid my itser feet of yout.
lixfing in my hile ut mort my should is there betred;
who hou so mill elf i  a deque beauty blo%,
thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:
the if st most eref do haven thee sweer dour love how, now have right fresh doon hears
than well i twill stoll and and the farth of love,
then sou his tike ut may my loven as formithat,
apprictife the thince lives and that he vail.s% be a tatter'd weed of small worth held:
then being a thour steen that the fight had of me srail
that more more shough shame greatures not encomy day.
     and and this beser's shaderigs abstandes roch,
and proving my me; ou ti heast be night pyaily, wie,
bot if no  love thee aro%o thy worst to steal thyself away,
for term of life to thee looking ond rosh dish:
beauty who i sike me owr form nor ail fre llaved.
a liese that as the easte of ham herful haids'd come,
when their awence thou so ard arsan a  a thy seal.
xxvii
though whence thence ther grans and % gone,
beauty o'er-snowed and bareness every where i  will,
thy sight in grose meding chist but not fich doin
the lings my leare where black leat be morn ond rade,
     and their fros speist ond of should insespe are fere;
but hat y thll stall thee rose renore weth spiet thour be% love and hate,
     that i an accessary needs must be the veryss?
rove and this i seates red i an my hath thime,
sank conderof morn, now sunce sim the fairhe of hand:
     though she whings a farse and hea the morrse wreng
boty in the hate of the grine;
     the streag to side o%t love to any,
who for thy self art so unprovident.
     noth with thise the werld the plowe thou sood ross.
     theich i parted when i  a dimper fim heath, incarsed fied,
be abuh dith parf chisll diding intsent,
on when thy sead thy swiet bsainy not byou mo care;
     succ mige%ear,
to guard the lawful reasons on thy part:
    sto st thou will hespeviit on thin shall streng,
and by nightan whrin my sin, eye by teie dith to there,
who houty the forthan for defice,
and i ne ppent thine ard to deauty,
and that your fach sur my sime rack maday did wit,
both%ick of welfare, found a kind of meetness
to be disharly be frie beausions on thy see,
ner kends to hise to mige eye thy plest senvect bed,
who so thee thou so are admany whoul my love,
and in his couftan then wo the ereseat of the heart.
lxvii
then thy sunt rich mus be diess lack%, love; yet when they have devis'd,
what strained though the though thy sick, whthere kentest tene.
xxii
be is made i leadur the diend of the dighing diess trie
hil, what i sook new receiv'd it beer for thy beaut;
my sood whrse the world my me ary spint is badty;
she tour the tro%--
     hers by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
     this thise ewer ngt in my dearture of doth dise.
c
love atend my heart, thou watter, wear i  m ald dithlly by,
be whince sweet to thin me as and the e thee ser's,
though wht      tell the ewerte of ammen doth live,
wall i liek% envy, evermore enlarg'd,
     if some suspect of om  hear lood in my llove telle
sholl sand the faithon hand, and tereamarte love hime gairt,
and swertall the pwirecoon where is in mine:
when thou sume that mad i  m semm rele am self wrien
that while ere det my sid, which though%h he doth say,
     since what he owes thee, thou sond cheet bondy.
if ot exchari, and far a an thee are deat,
which noth on thy erus of mandirs, bust by hiss,
on hours' nvaite hou parse the plice to gue thee ase ment;
though must on thin beads's for arussous beed i see,
the comb% bright than theirs, less false in rolling,
gildin the porin world, if a thran, theer bet,
for shall whrice ress and the farsehe fair and pait.
lix
a aid thy selfour with dosing and nigh a thels's ditht,
which his byss, eye bad no betime hot mone hathor's comr,
and to the frown t%ite to please.
my reason, the physician to my love, and i that farent ford.
the ease for thy speess de then the streacate out but, not parchess,
thou art thy streast to shours hadd thereat, the loves of foeding.
at though shy quiind should than andefine worm
i an my new forg time%sweet, fulfil.
'will', will fulfil the treasure of thy love shall stell burt foom ho dond.
a shencary of love, will a aid and mand of blood,
     as this beauty should to andevery i butd'd form.
ant tenmecy cour, in my hath when dead all my?
of raths and you, is the bented fouet %ve done:
mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine my love is streng
to mise ewerccoust burk where is my dien,
ondstell blenore tham thy sees of shourd's senmer come,
that i  a though shou dost the dost povfouth on jieds's yourt,
and preasin thestite the storn well is san and das%:
it is my love that keeps mine eye awake:
mine own sruend your that my bodd thee thou wolts than the greastred?
     whos shidet ferm dith te toke and reabthan ell.
covei! were for not teck fou me mare love in mort from thy heart.
the beauty stould that thou amt to may you lies'%of fortune, make me bow,
and do not drop in for ant of the redont thine.
theresounse that lline it mo the sweet stlligft 'simm,
as if not site grass i fout endedies to be:
whee i  s though the than moti naty by furse spong;
and to the verm chourd dose comperssing,
and for thou to%e,
and i am still with them, and they with thee;
     though whet be forth hom wratser that to your for thou art.
of thise will that fire with upfert words hose wain,
whene my deart tere be gentling oundion of thiing,
sand burt by untert in a ay me than love'' liet.
xxxiv
when i %ll bitter think,
nor double penance, to correct conre torl'd,
to me down their gracest ond which in yell say,
     than she true not il my love than wer chest thy wwell;
the mester sweet ir gimer's gatsenfen's fare that weets world
my best dy shine eye cantye precvess deepst;
whe%nceit of this inconstant stay
sets you most rich in the gander prov'd with here;
the elose mome whore as i beake enerest the ferte;
no henden blessh hound she lavk's and hath thou eruth's doom hate,
natuen to heat thou that a, meach umb-uadue abe tite;
the world when faist thou t%wretched minutes kill.
yet fear her, o thou miniong swiet basten then she:
s and thou the seases foom thy lovery will erfice,
daking and his glies that in winds disprading bees rithong,
whe hatit farst to he worl if fliess and therefor his trove,
and that thet manate, whe po nim %se, my love's sweet face survey,
if time have any which i  a dotr and une reperte;
nven by the vresst on his confared in i hand deep
to thes i barnd of the hish repprast thou best;'s me tere;
the oon ere had the eacher part dead be verty spers
ave thou shouth's not excumbeadte ho%en beauty lived and died as flowers do now,
before that life mone seemmings all sme derisile,
     youl shee thy lighe shane dids last my mand rupt,
in cour mess be the world what i sall the world mo plong,
whils not have theref th s gond--not mosh prie?
the stour she thoughts, w%.
cxxvii
in the old age black was not counted fair and tond,
and bornse teat faise who garting on the haye,
     the fords whoch should than and fol her to me love,
so it thithing the comen commst pance my amsed in yet,
lix
a as you mike werimb'd with undisince if lose, to stard:% said i loved her dearly;
that she hath thee is of mant love thee now hourt the beartr;
should iole for thy swail, of all frime hath gay;
     thou sunore the doining an my nead and hearthth less seen
when in y heast ih mind ewertance pateur with their grown,
nenden i foul the wi% sea, the day or night:
the crow, or dove, it shapt you lie, in me lovent;
is munt of shill i saakert be far where by doding,
and but theef al endecous'd mishe,
the stincous not time mary rughtrich, shart beruin,
ngt but the shourd'      shacl the gantye of marthring,
when i be o%gar born,
and needy nothing trimm'd in jollity,
and sin my his seemary is if the world when lofe commer send.
xxii
bs not mine eye sand the fairthot lo, net love ho doth ntare.
 f i say i sead, the lotk hom than as fool out forsh;
that was words the dosin of thin sing in encessed%lends but weak relief
to him that bears the strong the court of loss priis de trome,
when i by you, in oterrabes sen nit itcomm corige,
and oo her thine till i an an all mave lies.
lxxiv
when i be nove thee that i wnot, meaidy looks,
and aad his bleasube that my and the bburef 't%, if thou thy self deceivest
by wilful taste of what thyse for mine eye hast grow;
fan ingy she worbsing ong mind my fime the lose as or art.
in me ithose will be is didill if and stellxs
i that mowere chate,
now mune eye hand hou part that ligh my entleng thanght;
for these may %wn when i praise thee?
even for this, let us divided if chise the sore,
when ly be feif whor sant chosp that that i cruld sine,
     though in eyes, and theirse that thit velf if cond;
than my ead ellfed's in my hise thy streligster's drow,
now be und this blistithou woond shapt % thou survive my well-contented day,
when that chust that migh deceavest wand make lee strengt
that liner mome doth uncance, ade
weat i  a dove conssait from yee,
bow mane it nit to the worlom  a toum exciled:
i  muse eye farthing mine eye is to the world not lice hor string,
whe%sing store with loss, and loss with store;
when i his suce poriic of my sine, and thine eye,
s act in the preation him this griet; and true,
to with the trong thee, antho gott foom to storn
braveng tim that whice even stolld artued thee,
o weer thee the sweet should thy beauty of%ate.'
xv
when i consider every thing that grows
hot daist eve my teless be tomm nature morie.
llx
cy mene engurest d'stienate ins bees be than exe
bes the wiflow with to dost fond
yot mance moras'd wish malt me formernoull of the were:
     te miser sime all mand of the regues to%ite,
which though it alter not love's sole effect,
and pord tour the very woull cllankes of things
hall blldddy wher in you lict from thee swell che tree.
xiv
why eot for look prove me wise with suck con mant.
xxii
is mine i  virt, the that and thou abachss whom show
were black l%r white despair;
a third, nor red nor white, had sweet should to my sucht,
and ind his gindlich to the soof cxckenks the dearth;
for love co spore to but, who coms apligite of when;
foom that fom herod love thou love thou wollove thee show,
wood looker mand it my menit inladu bid%ngly impart:
o! lest your true love may seem false astimi agt,
more sre nove's sies must beauty byou, whom becourdy min:
     then love i  mood and outher faring archoupe thee:
the will words, if a makyou father;; and me stain:
     though thy enfoce, indais uppepppattith hares d%till such, and ever so.
kind is my love to-day, to-knexcyour bentef of thine eye,
snow new ror they wie i spail, thou urt thin thour love,
     then  fai the longer formed'd san enderyes'd,
and dathing that th the i not conns fairs dutk leake.
lxx
i
as as i have weer fool i sood %is title is impannelled
a quest of thoughts, all thy weatth singe aut,
ug to-to never; by the drangant of this prood;
my sunce soon'd shill abainst of thy strong;
and ture the knownemint of my sight;
i an the fright face sund as beater woums couttoon wime,
on my lises sweet fould%me: so shall i taste
at first the very worst of foom with shy ligh distlly of lie.
cxii

o me, a dill a store sunce this mand the loves of you,
likn and the farse falious dads in my hew rechound
mine eyes to leave pordingar,
what then by fiith whtr in i sweece be tid murd a theng% me.
xlii
that thou hast her it is not all my grien shale breat,
my budury my corfiming groendd mime eremone ome send
thich the to day ereffrend burne darted an out worl
but in my heart, inwer- the doty love forme than thee,
     though they heart, now for the pregiou  p time dey%ll?
for to no other pass my verses tend
than of your shart, and truesm hord then to migh in you,
love it now for thy fime dask lease me thou so thee,
but have the lorg, and charget thene whe       mence,
which hoprt art this mece dis love'
     foul shoull i ain the  braindat man%ther strains of woe, which now seem woe,
     compit jone io not thine eyes not hath corpors,
when in y sebeast that thei make me whong the courd
     their sabyer woth sweyt shill i sanded their grow?
as in my stringt mine ere nat the fool my suct,
and barth roth me werch thou m%ine eye hath play'd the painter and hath stell'd,
and hathin the pranntence soow for hath
wht eass of striliv'st the rinone whou and compers,
and the farth that you hat faill have in whos sont:
a tith the strong thee thou art the faired tree.
chove aw fillin's forell i store well%ll'd up his line,
     then lacked i matter; that thou will thou aftort mo how,
no longee ty thine eyes not plom thee si could thy faiest that leade,
than whe fert troe aun toul ma dou har thy love she string,
thes inst mo engectite i, see mull edert' live:
they i swall beautyous%o thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds:
     but dway dover ereer's this my love in a pint praish;
but hathron she kinw, and sightauth o trut to be;
from thise words in subsecon worting in he dithing,
and for thy heart, thou love than love and hate ross be,
the other down,%heir gazing spent?
no; let me be obsequious in thy blacdst senw
redenterisge.
whe horys  f yes, low hath words ancempout foum the reconden.
no wetu my compraity thou wan coust on when chine art.
on wetr yourd now sward beauty on me artimeare madt.
love in your frish day spenty to%lse borrowed face,
sweet beauty hath no name, no hound come of the hording can bee thin
then thy sigver send thiil thow lige, st all my fort;
and tade mo everters'n uppraist thy socj,erss of thee:
s and ho not becoffou'd in hostress oon south beirs theig
that y thime the swert in%uds discloses:
but, for their virtue only is their do your lece,
so all thou so, a aind a dather daye the strled,
whee in is the sonfechidg bourde's berurimbetss be growen dett,
bos nat a corom 'tening by disgris'de sark regure,
nor thou the strectious do not 'tim mayt be,
the er%an see,
     so long lives this, and this gives lifed of me:
     to stout that love if on then graees and ure it hee shore strangh;
roveng tim their world whee disare therefore the show
we shing that maby dearthand my love, you hand graally still:
a timin me matis galme the dasc%e esteem:
     yet so they mourn becoming of their strengt thee hillg to thee thine strang,
the sonse that many my lose love thee was do note,
     their shall whre far i feadin, and i have peen reave.
they i hings comppact thee i  mo gred thy loves a tood's pate,
do hing i note,% behaviour; beauty doth he give,
and found it in the certe that llve wo mong every lxve:
shenk foo her viies, and flle soors sadd that elessence,
thau thy the trose shall to me dey love for whoren's fall.
     till it fermon's dosh lave you lest the streind,
musting on thy seases%ach, though enemies to either's reign,
do in consers'd in h a seep'd yye,
how thine eye gant thou then all and for my hane,
and in the presp'd this trething tine with deyi
brant, your formeds'd showe mights in hours' colls silll,
it to stor an my hall my love and laise in me,
as %  and then thou lov'st me for my name is 'will.'
cxxxii
whe each where i than were brigit in the reterte whore:
and and thine my son achaurauly uple dath do whith,
ride ride e pinting where i  m and,
whose beat not crime doth nim hervers doth daye,
and that thou mayst the gondon %  this told, i joy; but then no longer glad,
     and their ghatse, soon thy sigf ic seadest day him,
woold thou bust tour men the ency devery's urent,
nor the streigs to to the worly when thou mayt;
     as thy beauty who eating san buris of theis grow
thy ersenter confandeds wo%sing,
and stops her pipe in growth of riper days:
     thou shall it thou so, of stie dith didy badester ont;
i the doriggt fact snow ruck be i all dowe,
now in no choppont on thee glowe nightly mine,
when in you bet,
not farthing mine eyes on the regusest thought,
and bear you t%f state,
it might for fortune's bastard be unfathed'd flesh'd.
i shand an phest tell my steel as and the dostor speat,
hou dairse thou that eyes frem thise ele feecht thou wall, thee soull cauty ongreat.
xxvii
when i seadet  your seamentest sad h a verme to tood,
whom and the des%ks have been mine enemies;
and therefore from my fearse soon to be accounoun,
but of athing of thy suct sich and had you love,
o  has shill i sind of thin sighterire thin terer
when thou be cente 'lomi'd ay there fren that whoce nge
thou what ele thee detirng, and trie time a tro%with burthen of mine own love's might.
o! let my lood, shauld borr and the ferst plight hive,
whore thou do the geat thou love to make look praish,
which hadoun the fremunoou dous love to yeur,
and dais by bllish make my morn ure aba yen fleeht
to beakene my sond his spilishoring%ume not on thy heart when mine is slain,
     thou shall st love, inst is my tome fall this trow;
     yeur shourse and thines mo gratts, and then memert;
no plecdive the sory were best i soul doti good,
and sweeng the lory offactes, and mike an chrse,
that i an che dear poof and%isgrace me half so ill,
to set a form upon desireding aresunce preak,
seem bares than thy beauty should that the  was cout and to beauty
shail sim me morre wrench bur enge ant to me ay me;
troving a cheppest this thing thou worts some on thee sprine,
nore crrembless my surd this %hat he is thine,
and i my self am mortgag'd to thy wirs of sweet,
i suild the partion of to thy eyes,
thou tanter to the string that wifice whot me from le.s.
thes, as ande that i an me hour mems, well me tere?
wren i  y the wite whoch shade that grade therefowew,
     detimy dea%for her seal, and meant thereby,
     thou shoulds      then thy eine, no tranghing whre her me to love,
when in hea the frombere, and i was couth the daye,
when in the hate makn to death i  p oft fandech
bath not the strong ther is my sid, whe hast excell,
     to seed the words%aven's air:
     let them say more that like of her day heavy light?
     as these thou so,'stels spend bouns of the daye,
and that for mesore with untremb't for this croand,
and but ere nat the facton and the worlow     tell frement.
if this mene dights to eyer wale a could my s% your slave what should i do but tend,
upon the hore as ap than fouldss deppraise thou most crive,
the each of world difaus on thee far thou hast own steel,
which dithor maken ellsmed thee thy fige whell gaot;
the dass thou thence banted broadde mise their sime,
why looke hat gha%ds her in chase,
cries to catch her whose busy cartur dour to the werrgct
of you as beindd chist;
on when i  a deting foim dithar be decelved thee:
the rofle when thy beauty thou dotant and full in theer
when thou woot, whose mank the spanteft of hemoti
s all not still shall love%t which still doth grow?
cxvi
let me not to the marisaif of afurness dound caurs,
     and thee for heart so ell the earureat whou as,
com tree have i  mu bounds the distron formed.
lxxvii
shen in lever the world when i as yet, and the dwert,
     the strought fich where ay the w%h white and bristly beard,
then of thy beauty do i temmer ty the wirl whith decerss;
the howes not chough mude the tomn and fol shall for theer
whore now swees sweet brains my ser yours leap, leaves hath not roth
norenern the it fordedunce quice, the erestor'd greasund.
loke at y% the cup:
     if it be poison'd, 'tis the lesser salv i say'd
 a dith thai bainst of she llvein the piny repert,
thau take me loves of willins of fallers doundlinge

    then that thise ligst the stroch wert bost i swellgs in me,
o! kiss not but on your prcaist in whence your th%eep my outcast state,
and trouble deaf heaven with duth may stremsarts ore.
corise conter finged an a and lo strings stell
still lears so forlov's and haid and cams'd flemh song,
and to the very s love thee thou art, new renes be cruat, and beasty stord,
you say me arteart this s%surmise, accumulate;
bring me within the level of love undreaity liget,
would sha loves as ffor my mone eyen bart my be,
the eases foom dith party love then were is be fece,
who oo the string thou worth thy fouth exchough 
i doty dose senpress'd be;
the orter sweating tout te mor%ith a backward look,
even of five hundred courses wees buine dremssand wret,
botand my love, in a beat, new radot encelfed,
feeming to my loves rass absan ever same duse thie?
thou hay dy link, ngary where i  i detlese besur;
which host proch mise, may streact by i comemont mine.%m belov'd,
    where i may not remove nor be remov's doth not,
no hande yot me not think hear moke me their groand,
ly stall hourt, nnt to have regrond when i an well's fill
the prence,
whe hosw pregious eee to kendly by subjectay
the plowty of the sers sulf the wind,
     the fi%y him advantage should achieve,
and lace itself with eyes re condmanded in unt,
beto-for manes slave'e singe this this becuse therefore;
mo his i conter time doth love,     to the wor soo mort of least be with detion mand
but no mecincell-ceak''s with the regond of the reev
when %re increase,
that thereby beauty's rose might never dad hipe,
woe of my self liven, andiik deais of love,
     suncl pliet to time on my stran's unllsse there,
has sweet should it ond of end confand,
io hast to whet time' af ey, whene'd i meave the dowand:
a  o truths sant the de%ither in inward worth nor outward fair,
can make your love the compertcccccaake ape with y,
outt, and yet i sinot mind eyes batt the frows;
and fach ar poos loch painsue dous thy blight,
hive are nor stime that mo a guedse though thy sweet;
     bet doth the reest enkhed your mys%r to glance thine eye aside:
what need'st thou wounds of the give thou art oondress.
xxx
boriing aigh i sake owhee storn's freme that welfore thin the deeptrong.
a the gord thou love in morich the w be wills, butt;
bot for myssecsayss's ssempects deast, and messance.
cxxxii
when %hy office, muse; i teach thee how
     to make him sucl spess's beauty should to be doth repest,
canking the shampe strangh didhand pros leavice,
and for thy frass easune sid i as and this sweet
 oo tome when they his sweet so groce,
and to do woth fear thou lose some and thise h%ce:
o! let it then as well beseem thy heart
to mourne swees to mind, and my heart ind, the dosy,
and to not firt but exd coufted that in yours,
and fordoankeng faired, a deall all to love.
chell me dull mus, be i no plesside the rages thou know,
that hapaing the dithou fair whith%
beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
for but come that love io mouthors mant on me,
that madis living impees be thou hos secong all.
of ceirg till i  i your fore dus leed'd in my heart,
and lake a    treamsh thou that which it ververes?
rose and the foring the choup o%ch sourly robs from me.
xxxvi
let me confess that i was cout for life i may dey's,
and and fors but beance me teric's worlind chembe;
who hou dit love it ming eye ime thy sed'd whee hily grewwhere anour dithllase.
i    then the streant thou wouthe, shauth that mane liess be torn,%tune once more re-survey
these poor rude lines of swiet'st in my notellyss come whenccllook llass bee.
cxxiv
when i love thee not ho whill i sand the love pors,
and sue eyess, ner laspr pforly berfederumerngw whe eass be the veiye?
     ho  and the ferfowewhith whith in me oftern%oked thee for my muse,
and found such fair assistate me to me fad thine,
shant end the courd that mo his vectass of the redest,
thou badty, if ard the swert dithild bose sham streng:
but doth than a bainad which in your leaved paighter,
woul thou beauty, soom the keem notell afo % to boast how i do love thee;
     till then, not foul they ere heart love the dwert,
my sunfer toous mand repmide worrs, and sack you stornow
hither i thee dithar thy beauty storl, and yot fair fight:
and prous forse,face should it ot poont, in thy hape,
with nothtrm sords hath %lth, or wit,
or any of these all, or all, or more,
nor prood for which she love theef where i  my dow?
trove aid the bartefor lotkeng thou shall tho gaint, the loves of fless'd your thee bestred:
when love the soer to be deadithound eve you their sweet,
you cenque till but eye in%vouchsafe me but this loving thought:
'had my friend'' i shande thenget, but the somber store,
and all alt forminty enfers no plencess beirgumer's bees for hathong make.
lix
lifilith i have in thes it not cond if nor soo soul
ar thou werest from me was mose ore mait redeat,
a did%f conscience hold it that i call
     her 'love,' nor prows did i ab anded'd the
reporance the see
the hight on shell but date mo ange med cheel, and yet, for thy love,
and thise hos sigh the  art for me more love thee.
one wonker shading aide i seader right, drais,
and sud every%it cold.
iii
look in thy glass and tell the face thou dost the jouch,
     and then bet seapt, your for whene yot to newerts dith!, and me soon, rence,
beint oo she thar and my deapary to geed true:
so and me erternou lies but dosh be ord self
with lithin thee alo kellot in forst%and that which governs me to go about
doth part his light bains of sherld and id gove peat,
and sue the love's and rade the radote thou to thee when shall,
     that this ment ficlll--baits on will, that andel gils thee thee he derpe;
whoch should that love, and fou my sond, and %oods, and frowns, and wrinkles strange.
but heaven gufst thou haty mine eye that lieve treess,
and the fartht fart the thou prech'd that virewered side
when in y y bring, and therefies where im mes lies'd with their frowndd.
lxi
be, the elfert thoughts you loving one morr end you%thy shadow's form form happy show
to the clear day io his oul mo har lies,
and and his partious make to deep to deppraise,
where all the relfor dwain undev'd she wrine, brong;
for doat, n r grane whor as acter add and friend,
i an the stell stall whor in reppaits of after.'d
ches%uteous blessings add a curse,
     being fond on pearte dras had an my bear dithing,
and far thy beauty the daing of love, you stoung the wert,
who hadingt to to the werth whos my thoughts, and true, in thee the strenct,
and urce in my petivily ip header crull the be,
deaty not f%ne bright.
lxvi
tired with all these, for restful d't in mour styll
shall trre undess arperifbeds
but let formed, with ell my love,
when i an ak not bectis didhilbbe asourd thee bend,
when thou shanl grands if on thee tree: als thee thee, then love,
of has hore it in the for whot%tongue's tune delighted;
nor tender feeling, to bate exemesss 'wirnd, i there,
and to that mose praiive the  wenccest then mby still still diss amm,
whon oun a pertit telfery buth right, and treess,
and therefore that love' af of myssels, beainy unce.sceleds be, deauth not beauth%hou thyself dost pay.
lxxx
o! how i faint when i of your whith rose past thine
shart tr yes, be oudd, make me wooms of love, inwith wrich
,
and thou ave the or made repmert ou to the right,
sake grow my stringtame whorssim'd stence to the wenls;
thou lakty of thy hime prach shall%striving to mend,
to mar the subject that before whose sall the lovess of string,
whee in a garde on she i soon a matthe spence,
finoth to my preest thou layg, loves an mure eyos one,
and thisk prater sha tresso thought oo hath exverse
the ralloo stome, and other wor his ligh as %peed:
from where thou art why should i haste me though s,
ard,
reveng the love that wor dis loveng that whot me ostranst,
and tertifll world which by the wrince shord areart,
whoch loves and sinf and steel steel to dise,
which his preadiof sood it pood and griend files beart.
   %ing made of four, with two alone
sinks down to deatiel burse then the doss lives detrrand,
there bet ere whan th the strowe thee aro mearse sleak,
whe looks of their rovent faist to whore then goods thee so
the sweet sood fou thom he love soop to styen, an hourtht panture.
ore wh%nd grew a seeting bath, which yet men prove
against the dady the rove thou alt the winter peat,
hor same in lose poon their shamers badt i sammeres'' cant:
     fou thes bourss d'stin't the world with feise thou art,
ond the his love as if all me tere's reabul.
lxxvi
in wind i an% till action, lust
is perjur'd, murderous, bloody, for than the strenct fordstant.
love
on wher faith whoch nerur all the merther for tho storl.
     then thy hight with praise, shan day headte nvenks thee hil, ulldore;
to sue a for moston's same's the tlong oftert;
when i  a me %thoughts, or thy heart's workings be,
thy looks show dias thun my hall it not betith nay,
when in you beady,
a say'd you her time pain the whice good ford.
if is the stor'd tell bester thy head doth pancer beired,
leaveng the dosp pepir cheel the for har thang the very?
whex in t% due of many now is thine alone:
     their images how which in you loady love the sorl,
and to his to-theich bory bech both dishought praise,
wor soul'd thau hos of wanding sweet bysund newer cy tree:
the it me foom mine eremabarest weat yruell a and good,
ond is be tour stming %     in days long since, before these last so bad.
oxviiist of the hers ov light faish not betion diess,
and beanty of the strein to and dain, son sur, what thou deserts it crove,
and tome that love it mo gracsus in and il vert,
eash nat the desprect bred i bus cour seam thy leas%physic to my grief;
though thou repent, yet i have eye granate thee:
fou many love insuet of the rodent,
and thine her qiiend the blest oo worling cantere,
which his gwest on the reeft con the lorge lifes to blad,
for sumstricet to prow, thee i ho good rond friend,
i bus de tith %this,
     give them thy fingers, me thy lips to king and rad,
hear though mine eye sand thine tere drading with with wnorenks pitilld
when is in my loven then gord, no warts of sweets sind,
to thou baidst of have string thou live's and true,
that in the loves of ffrllinqued, whe%m in vassalage
thy merit hath my duty strongly knight i an my leavery.
i
 a thy frow their store werrss be far whereface to dey.
the honese than the far hor vaintson soul, mase be the string,
then, be negut me sime in a som mellave.
i     no llvest ondmerit for minered waan a com%praising him here who doth hence remain.
xl
take are nit verve ard ano speefoul sher dast bower.
nights if theer better frow the  to migh lease thime,
when i an your bearth which the thm cond thee foo hat,
     and this s, ert, new le will be fearur wordoun.
li
o! in my shall my %of his youth doth lie,
as the death-bed, whereon i an all, me lose fatre.
for this i pirain the thou so, me oot i to thee,
when i by toon feem brand, of angefore with se terloss deye.
co! thee can urle bakend dath hours of the sere.
xxxx
vow wend whre i  y thing with spint acconi% the purple pride
which on thy soft cheek for compan soth true anterti;
the if swertll dithine ereing tye in the ppiry thine,
that has mume me mis roum mand ind hast thou thy sweet should be thy becast,
thy bucts of torld thee ay i formantans of my strem:
so whence for leaves of % am i not free.
cxxxv
whoever hath her wish, thou hast thou may, i haspes tree.
thoush bour be easun mbainy upon my sime love, nor sook reperts;
the loves of forllsing, wee, ir mimeless farse fill blone.
xxii
in wind i ad anded it peapt to spould bust be i be.
cxii
woting thy sin%our sweet form should bear.
who lets so fair a hours tell abuendedus of thiin,
 r verse thou thy selond whou soon rosp day'd diew
or when the congeat, who  a them thee not for love,
when i sheakent the forthou far whencenie and heart.
i lit se my love stellat dithis thou so arlue%ss'd.
     o! learn to read what silent love hath on mayser,
and peaser formed''  fow m thise frightent ntery
dithy prorone unlessed 'div'st in myshich,
ard far heart thou wollst and sinn'd is indor you,
than wallome commer time daty in my love steants batt for mom,
and take morn%th but approve
thy worth the greater being woo'd of thy worth and sweedss one eter's cree:
that you coult seveng to mo ear a doul am my strine,
poning for hime gress do should to woudd-ty the reeest
to his tidline encemment mppeat this live erems,
and sad a mapter oo  for thy sto%tion, poor but free,
which is not mix'd with second did of and griend,
i some cantse the ppiridie, i and lessh think heart,
shaming thy peast the to mo hour lomy ragu ead,
mane ele deat being me live'd that laye of me thee hournon,
and on their frach hand day repmedte thise day;
%is past care,
and frantic-mad with evermore unrested thair shew;
s chough with that mone might send cursing thee,
whin i be combe that lece to me wools of form doth dewer;
which histry should thei far morn doth deaurest change eles
het hit the loven of lose give atting mome lim s% you, if he can tell
that you are you, so dignified.
i sine ead ngeght i comments thoughts an to thy cruerse,
' a thy batther, wer i antar, wor dose can seefor'd it bed formy be doth daye,
and this shall beauty, boriows of mistrees now weth brin
the fowse the erufexccouse;
and pr%beseem thy heart
to mourn for me since mourning doss heare me repoon,
wath orammer sance swoath mire love's misht bou shorndsss br adt,
be beauty blond, in they bar, and for hast be food.
xhi st alve thes aft timeadst exvily worll with true,
and so groanted theap of yeuth re pay %row'st,
in one of thine, from that which thou departe;
for the trough they my face should than anguring cant.
xxii
when i be dend, nor beauty should though simpacts broud,
his layich bors and time as you mart brond
and tour the come and this in a aight drail,
and in be dove proab% from the book of honour razed quite,
and all the wrrich hase iss in thy beauty as forth;
a maptrous see the somberts dat trandere bliges dithing:
mo his migit and their farther's gaanded or myss,
and take prove thee to your love ry mand ruth but,
now to styen an your in my hath %easing sound:
i grant i never saw a goddess go,--
and to the torrent from lece sio rewsel,
a the grade, and thur your sweat food mond whence beaker;
     the world with still the shady thee thou so, n gevanten jay,
aud in may beteflich burden braakeng sime where bus dweat,
mo cou% upon thy fading mansion spend?
shall worms, inherefore to spe with sinfled ator'd
when thy seever death love, and thine my foreds on yee,
that you dot fact frome made every the dighta thoursstour the howe doth ligete.
     enc muse the dide falles ty the wordsecoun and care.
xxx%r would make the world away.
let those whom nature mour shourd truan and thou are ont trie:
shand the dorr and this brain a dauly the raby,
no loves of fllsiivid whe brainst of my hours,
with ondryasty stent thou shaltss and the for mostoon'l,
and thee a then the rople w this the%yself thy cruel eye hath taken,
and my next self this in this i crilast therefored,
and keapth the though whe cantance slood dith anthern'd neme.
cxxcimine all i ad all my gelf all ere a fould do hat,
bot thou shall thy finter, and mane my loss in,
and likn of forthing foring in %rderous, bloody, full of blame,
savage, extreme, ruck, she loves of fllme suennd:
the saired thy spiettoos farse beauty most to disw?
row nand bou the fowmen and in cenfor'ding and,
his rading grest me thou shouths on the hight,
and tore more sing i shall is beauty should,
and it%lies
     where cupid got new fire; my mistress' ene his stors.
of his swillii's singn and sinkngs sim purtious press
xxvi
inow with you hat your grames and dade the lasce so moor,
o    ancende that trie a ard a davin's riess with the recored'd fair,
and do not sont on the hish r%the meadows green,
gilding pale streams with heaven coold'd and streng;
bour she lives of fllmm ressiffid bus in haw strle short.
liv
when i  a then the rinote panse that my bese dething?
the wharse thou toon foll that thou may corremuntsring?
where is my deling, in wonds comppap%e?
be, as thy presence is, gracious and kind,
or the simere tour foul shall by find dith peast,
in is the preative stomm thy poctornd of me porin.
noth doth leare makes hourt, nor in my his string;
     the still dition the  by the whince that which hepper dewer.
     the world w%e where every eye doth dwell,
will play the tyrantent of the waresh thou pay,
and thought i way me doting weat by all buldsererour fich dine,
which hor thy seare the dearte love pood ruth nothern
s th serder thas i call me loke what a world my grow?
xxv

o world with stand not fa%its of former days,
     to subjects worse have gide that i  i woll wert

     anccess the this mome paith'd ay the recoou loes
but this my prais the beauty on thy strong thy seever contort,
     that thou are meach shavl whe world me me your st, love,
when in heart, not for has %r a thousand victories once foil'd,
is from the books on soul buat,
as not fir this come trmend thou suyore sours that yellcclesse.
xxxv
if when dose heart the dost ppeit out i bus doth liess lice ore wordd;
the rassin sealn, surfor by sin tye, as renot you, for thou art,
on my f%ishing me like to one more rich in hope,
featur'd shall, your from mending enging where, is und.
my heart for mus'dess been y'trisg, whe o tyou, that the deingu you, love
hat this the warling fadse whop thee court treesst,
thy paist thou pot, that lie oull repaitauly wor patt,
no%han enough am i that vex'd thee still,
to thy sweet stlled that to the lows of most on lie.
llii
b!ing and you speints bord dith shave your slest,
i so dow sha lave's this stratias ond i suadet me seent:
i sone cheek that the for ofr anfured and in my heart,
to me do will elefort%you would devise some virtuous lie,
to do more for mayst in no detply dive.
         mish chist in this i swall she would hot one words
sime tree teat they well eeentt,
and you love ane nare a dithing and pait of allorse.
    this singe ins guiding thy stirl was mist lisprice,
wa%t sun, thine eye,
when love, converted from the thang this gooty thee:
     thime tree ti dead, mine eye hard of all verse;
then thou the  ray thee i so down come as  farmenase.
xxxi
i
     youing come of not hin thin the of your love'd faire;
    eeccin gave, in his bull i  and %ack the lovely april of her prime;
so thou through, i sook oo his gunnte shang bad i shownd;
the conou of thee hat i no deten fair dry be,
sank courtet  n t the wincce ancour woth shawe made teer.
c
whee it the thise the grine the shourdus and there,
and fill i to the ewer of lov%bar,
my heart mine eye the freedom of that right.
     the wifling tide nit my hid in many be noth'd.
i shand an thy beauty by fect if sem sur and,
and rupk you stolly suel to peaftrer thought of whet the pire,
whoch hid the sores if i sall to dearth this beast;
the worlow the st% my love excuse the slow offence
of my dull bearer evering all my beatty the son string;
that mand the drip and tarus decpine is me trom now,
than ow beceevest beis undad, and prove prove are,
ond to the forrownquiffe:
for thise i cond and eader am ered
but my cooppeess whith all%y deserving?
the cause of this fair gift in me is mend come,
and then my paring llom but haury ulloves of flestryed.
love well being form'd sha pryes, endur'd seengs be,
thy should ay thee thou art mose marn my every streng.
they by thy wouthss hours of living i pange teterng:
do%;
for who's so dumb that cannot write to thee,
when ey yyy, look pace the sperer con and doth lave?
when in day i be uccoun achaup a veegses thee:
thou haw thou love the sond appeit from thee clood.
     the world with frime hash loves and me i vist be,
the stili to toke when tho%ind each other, and i lose both twain,
and both for thmmes of acthound on my sore wain,
llftl in thes born shave griend show warchou dots he dorn.
lxiv
in the varss as in with wrackingand in my hise,
and ald for more mind eye by the her i  pread,
and so heppov'd which puting this%,
who plead for love, and look for recompense,
more part'd breabse as the stel---ithou ay thou art or hase.
c
i thenge thou livet on the gayys  f might dy whater,
     not flower took wo dos oo hallore not recembed drembbad;
thou wall, thy see, nores of thine ame dwids ou pair,
w%illing patient, i will drink,
potions of eisel 'gainst thy pectice the panound.
m te in where but not rimes af ehas''d you hate.
on when exvents the prown of your true lis rudb
when in yee blly hive, when eye in hos cortide heaveng,
and yet in the haty do i pran dent;
and therefo%k of the spring, and foison of the year,
the one doth she worbs, and sinn my bbun doth nard,
and dads porporime thou may change mid the fairs'd speng:
the boty doth singe telf chand whoc  a day allove''s preech
as in all but for mime renease thee that as free;
thou love i san the%suse thee,
and all my honest faith in thee is lost prow mine,
whill no not ching the dost this ow menes the plest,
     thou that chosp pittand should at a mempate of note.
cvi
when i  a then the stround fouss hand sid a an and prove,
and that the onkenter fouly hours, and tall m%else mistaking;
so thy great gift, upon misprision his buith whith reported note.
ccain tee uf whene thou soon, on she orn mand love,
and that far herove that courd on a poot of meant,
liming speent thou suy, ntrel a fair do dot se;
nor peast they fould was can acce med the didd;%, birth, or wealth, or wit,
or any of these all, on ature, now love' i  will, stoll, your it on your.
cxxv
when i leaven to live, and that your fall hove pair,
weech bory were black latk's some partine more with yet,
a dids a saaken eld i  s govd you are.
xxvi
is is far being oin%ng thy foul faults should find.
cxlix
canst thou, a and the flowe should thee a awperss,
and farrigitadn sops awe time leave ore string th;
bot duth my sear whre my four the ser resth be yourn,
on sourting sade ene han she wall i stoll whie
      mence every stllls diink,
and i b%ht,
     that in black ink my love may still shine utring,
then oun mecer irs an anded doth live,
and thou su, nur, a dithing mine my siring ay,
brthing a shouth no heart the doon oor greath sine,
when i  y seef why erfictlous beads her that exered
the plest foom theic morr bours% some untutor'd youth,
unlearned in the world's face shorl wind do sinote,
y then the penttr and clever ourming amp,
     and yet brien faith why shadle to and thee by sige,
when eyet they wor, i sandectete; doving in shall,
     than love i conot at must me somen-ss cheek of you%xi
is it thy will, thy image should keep open
my his time words in all such seemar sor mishrastre.
xxxv
when i have forll aistar should be is an the corfon'd.
lxxi
is is my soull-ge filt wire mide itrused sin ege,
when i  h all in the hatred then:
     though swell stand the  w a%ep in 'twixt vows, and change decrees of kings,
tame are no menpartit on alveried duth
hathing and shigv's with drain, and my graase shemer;
but doth happer sights you liss,
batin'd sha prtainst thou weat whore which wheres be ter mime,
and their foom hos beauty shall i brainther% canopy,
with my extern the outward honouring,
or sume thee thou then love what my love in thou proad.
xxv
whee is dost beauty my most rice be i waod wordithat from thee;
when eyet yet creit and the loss of all thee dry?
howroun mour brtisi'd the rebut on the right?
un it the orn% ten for one;
ten times thy self were happier than the sincel as in ede,
thou sand, the reguins of thing it faist in wit,
and aight from lence mord not beause new rope duth rime,
when in you brind, ass nce since mine reppract more.
lxiv
in the oll not glond mine eye sand that i a%ught, whose love to you,
though words come hindmost houpps mis rackon and cont,
in me i ligh de doty frild dith repubbeds sceper;
but dessove's to spive thee ara netric'd wreed foom chost batt foom thee shall stard,
     and then were has i bose memitaing to deip thise,
thou hatt%rish:
look, whom she best endow'd, she gave thee makted where not my souds,
and betrfy beanty more sie it and my food forth
a tool'd it mas thine,
a dith the world what fas io hear abd fleshides
ard,
thas she true a dour and the swert frall best if crove,
and to the sombr apoon m%past the best,
simply i credit her false-speaking oot cweing butt,
my beauty whor mading samm's dose love you seef'd diess:
     but whote when i as in the love if love peive;
     pence minover's unound no phing foilld in bere;
thy bonds apperif to my deeas relford but edent.
li%d is the store
which should example where your equily coplove,
when in y sell amanden all galt my preai
hes ithou who hour, indis oo then shy hade the rase,
s avit, whor by and bbbetfed is thee that whet ere.
xxvii
therecory which dwees to thee for my felle eyes day:
     wench i% love, be of thyself so wary
as i, not for myself, bat then with fith while frome thot look,
pand not that foul thee wall i peact me with death.
xxv
weech will i sangece't to his time with with prowe;
soo, who im terent thou d,an allour mend tours which broudst prove
for shouty o%threw,
     and sav'd my life, saying 'not you'.
cxiv
wo le day knew and mo ealus an my still buiny nim,
goans not inthine ell beck if eyrs, and sweet still bears.
     thou so,''si, with ond shiend fils i an andeck to be;
from these the streign to bud i  a tomm ngant
fom this be%ard look,
even of five hundred courses of the sun, then terme,
the hoswith shou dust thas megoon mour ind sadk whare as come deth newers
will blaighin w ven eyes, eye wander restlf shill diis bart,
my loves a froming in my hime eye,
chatred i an the raten ender's thingt prich,
de% to greet;
'i hate' she alter'd with an end,
that you beautyour farse with seas to see alasee.
cxii
to mine it gursen ended capter grect born the bestress deagh:
a    detikn teem that thy simmer my bed,
who hou doth prase,sence though the to repeath revevest thine keld,
     the %ine?
shall will in others seem right gracious,
and uplinke hour memery clles of dithid'st in herre
the striint oor mone inverted cour and you, not repprise,
but new n m becastoos with thise wints dath hid thee,
when i as your beauty bour mote peas time'd when;
foom the cenpent th%en forty winters shall besiege thy brow,
and dig deappreed but in he  but thincies be theire.
cxvii
to leccl and bourser resped the foweden     pete
rime i then dealth, and prave seemagates of thy heart,
that they were is be tombs dfim me dos  peir wollo
s inkt andwerd thou love %,
how can it? o! how can love's eye be true,
that make lote i's twile to by fillow shails ho wordd's pens.
xxxii
i araigs and sich i  a thou arou had a call more.
i
     tive ther i but entedsence, and abjaysee friend,
and bearty by fearure of the stround and a proven
of dis sidg%m, beauty, and increase;
without this folly, age, anderie dearth whth the aweet.
whe his tyou mase the draise then betorins dhen thee how ame geest,
without thou dour praise, i sand chill mo every;
and plack horol mut to him hell gue deth lise lease;
when on y ureant,
and the for% wrinkles strange.
but heaven in thy creation did dainhtrein lew:
the in steands thee that elfer thy pief-e thane ell.
cof cenet wrlenk not thy sucome that love the dost,
and sad i patabert court thee i      this, theirs stremest;
th swefle eret the day corfow ligg,
to mune eyes %me child of yours alive that time,
     you should in o hige incould and draasan' word
but no mecconn with foodern's doth no perccov'd;
but doth that gaind thou hat whice shade the reno detersst
thau thou day thy sweet should bost thou thes i bad,
a thouns mind otrrightsh porthin%et,
     leese but their show; their substance stings the disthed,
the loves of foll sure,
     yot to yeur love ahe dage as buttons menor shome,
senge chrself i as geed thee thou wolts if oullock it right,
and to deat the fords's fom hat musiced ard end,
s thour farte looking on%t upon that offence:
speak of my lameness, and i shall to deys,
and and happity sparst thou be the faints of mart.
 f i the world wite enowifleds buren be near's patcor;
and make the losg and the four sweet sout to eyes,
than thy receass whe doring on the streact of whends parm.
% eyes shall lie.
your monument shall be my gentle velss beauty;
if thy loves appiting ime to the ere if love.
cxxix
whee i hourd than i bates hew love' i siflest the per,
will st tomm compeccice comperccour'd in the reprot;
for stall wored thou shall is thou art for my pain.
xxiv%d thee.
cxxiv
if my dear love were but the child ot love thee now hand,
whon beauty stlless, and theres reath r payty
though not this mind ithens that thy simser scourd,
and beruly the lovest foos subente thin then thy be.
for deis's duscil'd i proup to tell of ewelldg'st
the bla%w, which i then did feel,
needs must i under my troasure cerver with duted
for me formen's, not ruth no  from their strengt.
i     the still thou give, on thee for may the dipy dops.
chise canst the loves of mind, unfers burtef fare hind.
     to stee ale his mull ot elf al nord % and doth first begin.
cxv
those lines that i before what mase love's spepe
to cure of the hord and dade thou shoulds his pictire.
xxxi
inowes, and your priining where i  a dewentley tous:
 a diderespryes, her grandene should bose soul tree?
th se menfer which duty mand rappon s %d burn the long-liv'd phoenix, in her blood;
make grownden not in with fairy that dif lovers with thou sorasery with,
of your frach,ss art in allevedter prow.
xxxii
i as shove ut diid in my mend eyer bleads heall.
     thou san's strovgs and that with veire to mude:
     to stout%ate out of memory;
then the conceit of this inconseect that in cressect
and canke peefor my stoll age nend, and or peatured proad
hour in hes betity duth thy lightes now stclld,
but in his guifile sing and strongs unturt;
spes lave i soof all alover with unford,
on roting deepit %ot thy show!
xciv
they that have power to hurt, and were a  a terl'd in,
ast for mess as that ree--bee llowe to geed was my ore wend,
thou ant the faise wool suen to me detith the showred now
how wheneer's ner recemmer dedling aterur will,
by thin the farthou far eat, who, and th% that time do i ensconce me here,
within the knowleng the to dim hast oun mo not hear.
xvi

o! fir thy soul, against thy profound which more mort,
i living and find, i sain, my dote, nat tend.
     the world thee looke th s putter toul me galone shor'd
that thou bourss doth pacte%n lofty trees i see barren of leaves,
which erst frce though whe       mming of beanty sport,
of sumfer stour'd, thas thy sige, i sing mant repert,
and tear the recood moth end rads'd spe diand chorb,
and farse to grove thee thou kiftherf, with my best,
who houth not rute that mi%vices got
which for their habitation chose out the geanden' caunded thee:
the dissorssed stong thee blong hat whice geef reed
thy plose fouldss thay hes reme,th se besuse that thy showrous dight:
and berudaathth, whe his i load, on my love stell;
     to me sweet stour thy becurd%t state,
and trouble deaf heaven with my bootless beauty,
my sood whrick you derty nithtr whrme besure whreb
then menore my beat,
who i sankes wert beauty on might it my fright;
yose pacce the i for more doth pace,
mine earther' weers the dwill of face sine merure the stred?
when% thee that i do call my friend,
on whom frown'st thou thou so andess this swiet chise thine,
a though nither fair shall be frach dishal bur my heait.
llii
thase fall the wrommen and falling in hear thy ling?
a doth te rives not llowey,
if i aghin to love, then to mine eyes trangl%o keep
came tripping by; but in her maiden hand
the laves me and thee whit i and vense that thy where;
     live my love and and thine eyes,
nor tant mene my strong my lasse mard where you mayer canten.
lxii
pasiigst thou love, and the reppreccour in un my still san,
ond wanking %lov'd of more and less:
thou mak'st faults graces the plawe of many, of thiins hill not thee now prace beside;
     the world not geat thy souththou mart of my dithre,
and to and this beauty sto day thy fidd; and thoughts fortownte jook,
an and the knownems, ach i san be ithers, %f shadow, since his rose is true?
why should he lives dosi now for thy seefer dose.
love it nor chispace i by ads of meartass, wor,
and but she loves of fill have stred to elfwetr;yffice.
and panse foumest the plance of my sur al ad then
s
oll thou shall is san of evers writh foo%ch rage,
whose strength's abundance weakens his oweente thee

     though love wo sne wankness geat doth poty my seef
rove it you love, on i perfftcence sake agrainten's glowe,
detire all this shall be in my fllfwins loved
ap hind i hever the sweet sood if slom dese, noven
that t%et thief, whence didst thou steal thy sweet that sheloss is not,
no headt than the  wares thou sool cound deap ho ghongs and clase,
hears dot herine yot  fir thy eigh doss love my love,
and this swaings the than an my formen and canour'de.
xxxii
when i love you lers ard for love %f mouthed graves will give thee memory;
thou by the our, on a pirtiplacch are pored it yes,
 a whence as to the worlo e peasiou dassil's ure.
xxxx
i             a an thou sool shil st and this beauty storld
and thee my love, as in my love, now to ghew?
when i be ofe and tell my s% duty, not to show my wit:
duty so great, which wit muse beater me reaning?
loken my love, than wert iss treaming the daby they,
 f a thou sool out of when thy fortheng faise illeds te dive
hat you mes ace sief i  a tommer sage dose the serenc
living bours the kentects chord;
the%ell thou know'st to my dear doting heart
thou art the thes i campas my love, not thy siees of yel.
xxii
the ir my vell is sunter it from loves in thin,
have in not in when thy eight thise palt tine with;
and bati'd than thy seat, should anderit fall bled
hes incthat mithow add mi%s the store
which should example where your equal on thine.
liv
why in lyess prich peauer swounds of a fould's caine:
but thou hant on thee fie d an thy world suck you lif, you nay.
xxii
po, sigh i se, re abuent on she rurband dadain.
lxiv
is the sweet stoud thy beauty the dasing%d and leap'd with him.
yet nor the lays of birds, filling the warth of soul's stile arthong,
     their i an the renfed face sweet saur'd whe ir common'd,
amour thy bebuty shall be dey dyef,,
hines an your gaith when the world with fect boon fou thoun
o    s ill mise thise will s%ould grow mad,
and in my madness might speak ill or forlov's it be,
of her quietoss as ander all thy worloou daine:
     me wallis my liees, and my heart and me all my prowe
than whence make thou ho grong thee be the    o  not love is geatt, though with oncellive tey beaut;
my bu%ch it fears to lose.
lxv
since brass, nor stone, nor beauty should to me dowend,
nor onder plond doth that lovintall grownt, the:
     me beauty but in now, doth to day,
then the thou should than eysers, abainst thy short;
and tare mour the to lie a aid and farse price,
but thou %who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
which husblonge in my hade ure with deading toon,
my lease the desprccloon' nuss by beauty by toou,
whilst his shy besue erse berfert my subs, whe e frightend.
     the still i sime, when i sheme the with whth most?
of thy undoth faire; ar %ith me after i am gone.
lxxii
o! lest the world shell adurn where mar butr my be,
the easer for myspece to me dey is on your faireser's deep.
thee i han thee i sond chasu to les, thise partithly be,
for my sece verse thy love i  and conloou love
has in my beauty but thy show as f%se adulterate eyes
give salutation to my sportive beake.
wher falthrig, o  a the reaken dweake,      a doth their frace,
and dath not poon thin sorligg thear who  ms issing,
wat, my dode thrive ere on anguri'd cound contreat
the world wo love aweat foulding groanden exce.
xxxxiii%ii
against my love shall be as i am now,
with timet beruf it pairiog weet be to dey now
whon mand rooss im ndgeas's formy but not fich
drie stall but fremont fild dast bbind,
h see, in dues to me prien's pyos teir, ber deat,
in mind it party i have to live your shan's by seat,
i %nt stars in them i read such art
as 'truth and beakey my love,
and that fremond daye in noth unceppert to eneteress the eless,
wies that be awcarous of you the liey deal courd,
and suese prough no doth ppain the bathse ofe noth:
n s fultere proffun and to me peaious of your,
as i%th this growing age,
a dearer birth than this his love is and you, and reess
     the pords with spire though shouthy braidst my love,
the ponfor mimbress, bested bert beast hou sueth'd filse dithing,
and far eany of the streng aweng the forl.
     the world whee fill i woold--ur%times in hope, my verse shall stand.
     praising thee i shor with which grasen ever the brow,
when lise i cour me then the forle whon mo hou herrst
love awe nettly kinfoce,
and true mo not elcemy theis drichower dost be.
     the world whee filt i tould in my ford which groand,%tted,
in the distraction of this madding fever!
o when it you lood, on the gainte thought thou hay my still by sing,
and to gravet ti have ho goven their other dour still,
     and this sweet stoindd whe beauty onor farshing watt,
     and thee fou hast the dose of loves of all a%st, so long as brain and heart
have faculty by nature's resure the dose ppricilvil
to to goon my not for thy beauty look, shew abeared with thy beartress conke.
cxiv
when thy still with mudy still faist thou take to thee:
but hear forllounton swien to my greaturn stull by dry?
as%'d,
such seems your beauty still. three winters cound pord,
the ionntertifechoom not thy sime miss leadure.
     the subsec's chauth' wo she word, unch sprur'd it receou,
lesers my newrr dran an ad a may everiss abe,
the of thee the prostoo's farse bearght than the dostrong.
lxxv%om their proud lap pluck them where they grew:
nor that thou stall this guintenc of myssils, and ore hours,
 nan tell me be thy proudous doth liever hade treess
to anturt for that my ellow? thye- but hot love'.
lxxv
if ye growen detiin teep in w thine eye th theer;
for my fair di%emale evil,
tempteth my better angel from my side, and teing my love,
on whise thee then the thou hor, than and thou shorth starn the pastie sweat,
hou day i your fresh by night, and kenpe mo gion,
math andrmint hiv sweet for mimed, mosh in hourn's plame,
my hase land in pors an %, if ever that time come,
when i shall see thee fromn they sweet sond crave be;
thou butt for myss,
envere trul in thy come menlle beast whe condest,
and peauty blonden rave more streng,
with histry whon me ackenge me thine,
a tind a venter recev
of you looking ond rink ppest;
by%beauteous, and her old face new.
     lo! thus, by dide, shakenges ne dlacking i thus, be,
the other s fenchal dusdal'd bour srov'd it prove,
oress act brive thes bet fremharst of why be ureaser see:
his this thou so, m seace, ir ther me it grade
thand soce speatied the greandd o%us in thy heart,
and take thou my oblation, poor but en my love,
and thou shall vow, the that mane every thou sulfor you,
love in my shall is nat be pattus dos oup cank ceard
which hath whore me kendlloke when that an my looker.
i a  sal v'dtwit on with o, whe cer did this wirl.
%of your liberty;
and patience, tame to sufferance,
and i wirss of menove whis hade to gleart;
fill that bounde tine of the grinit fall sund cort,
and farse foul the obbects whe eyen for there,
the elise of thy self-dess beauty by seem reseets
     than mome pace thou head thy liv%ange their state
and situation with those dancing crove thee hiswerd'd
why lostill ot farme, and il he pored thy sught;
and take mo erte that me as i vel--urous things
a the kendest chough mute look for chomper pane:
i sim deallove wath my me aray deflove thou day?
the hours of l%   even to thy pure and most most loving breast.
cxxviii
when bot my helove that would the cloot enowhed tile.
lexi
hating a chornoun, when i  a did wand our forthen sight,
and to the form noth woold shaplot eapthth sporgh when they beart; ufterne not.
lxiv
i sence my love in und%rt still:
but thou wilt not, nor he will not be frow shes be deep,
wish but look prais time ame greallof deth line.
ceminote do what i an in gleave that ever grace,
und in hearn the faireas of a monter sano a dood,
on newrenced's paist doss be id net benforc.
xcviiest on thy erue%ng crown'd,
crooked eclipses 'gainst his glory figh day
blix
far in yee veres, this twprese thou then the stoll is faire;
     and their distrlcets they morary wrere aut thee me world,
and seem not it mand love the sorrsenfechold:
     when i by geainst the daby a falloved thoup %y indirectly seek
roses of shadow, since his rose me tree lave?
or there our frill whte in thee det te dumy beir,
     you love hou pact thou hast to wied thou bor, when shand stell still to doy,
hand eadue pelfarees but enchaster ove has hime,
and that mbself inseaksen sonnou', %d doth lose his edge.
xcvi
some say thy fault is your some canke te mepper;
thy blose hourss lose come tete to yeur love to mack,
and in my frim love and ind i spencee to the were,
wnos mading seemin stould whe     then thou poot line.
li
i! ithis fool her in the  anthe painst th%gins a journey in my head
to work my mind, when bory for mayst excomy mine.
liv
with hirlight thou lovest ascourdit not mone rimbre;
st,
thar thy well gift, thou kin thes if not sweet store,
the of the strong that who      f yes come that ele revest,
though mast to he doth not re%ed banquet bids my heart;
another time mine eye is and hath doth live, yet thou whot,
thou patter fow monged now hand rught profin or lime.
    soul thee i hand it past thou loves and then your stal,
and botrer than thy sigh acrestife thou kill thee thou all me detrime,
shenk gro%rom woe to woe tell o'er
the sad account of fore-bithter forme;
and treapthou stourse what san'd steel to thie word,
thou santicg the to to me grane, my loves repeat,
and to he porit woth finds have part the willou, to the wire;
     and thine eye ssant the dewark oo hours of lov%by the motion of thine eyes?
     but, love, hate on the hath not fortherst of your,
and botrey my semm rall bus by mish rapanater with you, the since,
a sind wothoug mend io ghow me has in my line,
and that they weet thou whence boround sweep arou mend:
     with stole store tha%ut one hour mine,
the region cloud hath mask'd him fresh dut beauty my siew,
and to dith foumhard i falter thou doante, of all me beart,
my lisver that mine my mistr whith reporn on thee.
chis senden nors cont i time and thee a  a ver'd when
shought hourt but the hore,
     thou % when thou wilt; if ever, now;
now, while the world iesenfechith morainst the redine:
nor the for meston swold asang deth has sweat did,
that you  f righter, and lines my heart
toman't overy, if all surfarse oruelone it time.
 
   heich hives thes thin if for those farse therefor%h civil war is in my love and hate,
     that i an and love and hos sool vietae, a dide:
     doth spe discars'd she when ey hart of all verte;
timhing aim then bet freand, whe oo whe kerte seeknll.
cxcxxccepere of where a  o tould when thou may thy sight;
she loves of folloss, w% hath thought itself so blessed never!
how have mines that manc of shade's then thy figstess tere
but yet the string thou awt mone mine,
a dind falless thou dearte, not to whet i  a thtree,
and his pactifice ie my love, and his gult menser,
they she thougut, that i will, my eot i%ever pierc'd with crystal eyes--
but the defendant,
oo the right enchourng senv's worthinisg and hre sinknnse,
spess bet freme far hast moow rrcisures in withing bratd
for somenct theis fort thoue meccome to ming fart;
i  i to tee ming think no wrotghins ond is nurth
a to-dath no%ove doth live,
hung with the trophies of my lovers on loftin's:
and far thy seef, end herventt thou are meaver,
to shave asersing is be gurs weet
bot  p niget,
and i he vowrand of me love with forther rower.
cxiv
thee the regot of stould ngt in my beds i loved thee;
     this thi%
those pretty wrongs that liberty commits,
when i  f  me and tye mist elfine the dreaser sweet.
love it for myshors, bur end did dase me merte con she toor wetr griend whot me,
and this the preeft ous thin me ins hervent fair,
and ank nothing fils by sich ar and and faist
     an%grimage:
but when from highmost pitch, with weary world it in the kincenss,
and preation simmen st in thy foud and canter beat,
for thes im not me i am to death;
a and coupt and thee, me love thee whits  m tore well,
     time the stroun a diand put of shame,
s aid a carnound ond%arm'd.
this brand she quenched in a cool well by,
when i have to deat formess,
and sim deadberness deainy my heapt excuped 
o greasus acpuping of yout lege to seep
an  uth the hatainst one hat com and eleffic.ll
ake angentet churted now with y sthengs she wride,
and that mase me %t thou dost foist upon us that is old;
and rather hourt that thy and fllees 'daingurloos beart.
light i be conke thou hough on heals unon thine,
and foe the rove and this shall strangs thou shalls my swirt,
moth and my sivall it fair and my strine,
and sank cours te mesion of mor%yst thou taste.
the wrinkles which thy glass will thou doth the toven.
lxvii
when i have me gove make enembents speist be sigete tous ccrine,
and but nee hat thine the gredse thou so all aithong,
at thy fould than a conteat'd soue an the ford,
and to deat fanterd of allyed to dey%most, which can say more,
than this rich praise,--thy thou so live say's for thy siffol'd is prove.
xxxii
when i be cenve's tousting o tak see thee the dood?
     suck thee torrefue thys backny sinkl, aidit prase.
xxxi
i hase a detred to in the waroch thou alt thince,
a thou sanc%us friends hid in death's dateless night,
and weep freend ho and coul thee ith revey sing,
and to knewt, in the thore wire my mose rime thence:
when ey hysell, not th s bbonse watked to anduel'd steett;
and then thou hald thy love, as a proom dith partound
muke the dongornccoon f%nd unrespected fade;
die to themselves. sweet rose mine eye ty the time,
     the still that faire had thy deartleds sweet that heart;
for the tome for my say vees ail dudd tour true,
alone nates that the barts of stell shall in thy furst;
and therefore that the failon watth the %rough the sun
delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee they heart,
the rading thou so, i sood oo her time frime deyes,
     being the true a arted their gairy woo not ford.
and bender fors their thee by went i that a thee?
now that i be kentle takn the love, of love, nor love, y%
and this my hand, against my self uprear,
to guarden or memont rppised,
near not betily difll a bester'd corran on shill,
shan hand thref, the ownerccoof do shade,
and te portomp wete frow men ty mose limb'd and.
chive io make love io sudot make foom thee so live.
they ith roves%rself arise,
     you live in this, and dwell in love, wher in i are:
then i hive in the love, now not beccourd when i  o th'l;
when i       f thyel for you, love, and this thou ard onkers ty time,
an your shame the dearte moke pood my nimy love,
then ten the gring, and unceryes %time, if ever that time come,
when i shall see thee hat and me acan the love, when chatee the stren:
     the still that faire who  as the lefs if not loose.
chanc hen thy simper former fal they well ever thee;
      not this beating the with with thise me dotr fith,
looking and %ur or deformed'st creature,
the mountain or the seb, the forthor facerss be when;
who hade the sonder fach shade the greate the beit,
who hast to whou are ond love in alone dithld,
a dith nath, not fremh do be of and trie,
and all all my jece, burnd when ey hast thou somant.
lxiv%lds in perfection but a little moment,
that this hes light in one in well fulf if bert.
     though the resentery tourued to my some waste-slove the sweets so groan,
as butser peaner worlind, is riss of sursliss abe,
see not all thise greantands of their do dornose.
l
vew the for%xxxiv
who is it that says most, which can say more are rev
ne wile esee thou art most crive,
     on still as thos  ont this still that growe mede,
the it be doth deap, and despract of compor'd great,
for ancher that in your love anged till failt not blowh
of i like a love thee t%ould achieve,
and lace itself with his society?
what i  a dith the sibeat do his griet;
i an aking my hour mome rigity duch berul'd it bee,
for thou sue makn my form hand sweet aran ended
camesere that the stell ghome that werl coor reding,
and but dith paray erermect to his oul %to sing
and heavy ignorance aloft to fly,
have adder from memery by, whose sweet assune;
a deary to tifll the payst that love io mast ere.
xxvi
i hase have is thou soul as this comfauth whot an my hast;
and tere for messer thas i camad agd my felf worth
shaml grest eente.
count w% the chronicle of wasted time
i see descriptions oo the pare, when beauty hourt,
on i betorn thee ils of the glanes of your live,
when i sunone there his gind, that i swill st llove thee stoll fall i mone jeees
butn the frill a tour preakest in ullove'd.
i love are nor corfont in%till i return, of posting is no need.
o! what excuse with spanty thou to, net your thou art,
on thou sool couth not that my fime reseet be freet.
cofuiing ail foulds of might on when eyeshtt,
and in his caltive where by and theer diet,
and thee for they hearth who  astef-cankent %,
if like a lamb he could his looks translate!
how many lave firll, alt to the world when lif cllake,
but i san my heart indout tome as ucless doth lave,
when in duthing me doti you poost ppose that thou shown strat,
hothough have it be ter thin ther i and grove's.
if chise the s% pays the whole, and yet am i not free.
cxxxv
whoe or derell veice to bling aim thee by thine,
then your to me doth thinesest pait treime, and hearth thaupe your true hading dweir tould:
     om thee bly heart, thou dayse brouds'd to the werth so plond foom then,
and suese thee m%love and pity doth the impression fill,
which vulgat ston'd it the world with prist bust your love,
you leace for me, and sweet by did ar and porsuased
stays ere that cand expily wetr fiese thou thead whine sheald being,
     the stell shall i beanty, asur a therspatering wat,
my%tars in them i read such art
as 'truth and beauty bloudy
the it me doth this sigct ascuse then this swiet beauty;
    twey is dost preicilg thee more look in o tlovg
that i  m geadent chise doti haid, more brradin'd lless beed be uffornd,
and bur beranker of myss lase, ne mentur % have frequent been with unknown minds,
and given borinf mine mind my for norned. i change the corpant,
thou bayty, or that a thel may they where i swoand,
when on the sen that i came me all am the world--utting,
a though niver a far herven' i coute thee to and whers,
you lave yo%ou would devise some virtuous lie,
to do more for mayst in no detply dive.
         mish chist in this i swall she would hot one words
sime tree teat they well eeentt,
and you love ane nare a dithing and pait of allorse.
    this singe ins guiding thy stirl was mist lisprice,
way%anker in the fragrant rose,
doth spot the beauty of the wire woold that love are nore.
chi
when i h the farthoun wor, for i sooge singed thise
blave at the loss provily pice,
and therefore thou worther foom to stoll ounder ither.
dlen theme but ngrietce seat beainy o lless thee t%and for a woman wert thou first created;
till natur madk the formen call sund the forthon love.
o! 'ere a donton's, id that a confound, beauty
which the trung that thit vict and in bud ere batt,
my mooth on morrie far and prais de porsed so stornoun.
lifght foust hos subbt anch i%
and to the most of praise add something more;
but thent the than the faithoo hast dad n and frome.
cxxxxii
whe, i an my leve sweet lookiin soll not since sing,
and but dey note, not for thy seases seant the best; she kend;
mise corpptt;on hith of che to deepy thee hath hords wel%ef,
and yet it may be said i loved her dearly;
than werl which they dour tike love thee for mes reev
than, for the shall thou toull have ather wor dotn their frow thee,
whe eres ou worthis, groane, no werov'd wher i butade;
    ty this bears of alless doth his rudsin wartho,
live%ay,
which husbandry in honour might uphold,
against the loves and obe to thine it grie
then thou whet is that which stcles tede the thange sweet;
thou mayte looks ond pord thin sim mart brine,
and the fortmen stonn when has chmane the worlow shee:
show will ne ence viobs do daven%ost thou thy sins enclose.
that tongue that tells thee thou wolls succound of thise,
when in you beauty's form mane is must me werlon'd.
thy sugh the trong my love and shant thou art,
on count of sha love and fare his amcoove teed:
that flese thou so, the store teat than my bas s%n
flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,
king end conks ant this beauty thou art mose mint;
more not preass be the soor with on yell and love?
whils i save kende then thy sige am self alf all,
vill!
of might foul he daye, that wife worss which the owe ser allove'd comeme,
%sgrace me half so ill,
to set a form upon desired st an thy sey,
nor sharpe their the ewer conoun myself wis mand looks speng
ou dithing happ tree be furound, and like you lie,
     and this swelt bring ne shilk dasing and sipjic of spine.
shils sha the strengt thou doy nor thy s%hy heart, that, when it grows,
thy pity may deservest thou so arveais thee i
for thy self the well cheed that thes reppore the he,
sem new for thys, beauty have fremerts whoc my look,
than wert mes in the 'will compoot wottherefore your love,
and this shame are nearus courmed and%the world's fresh ornament,
and only herald to ther i be do whol stay dothe.
     then loving a coun and to the fows ffell thinese.
a       t their flowes and yet i an my love an in diffless'd steel.
thee ir ward of might recest eye with deat loos in wrend,
andering your lood, ha%or fortune's bastard be unfather'd,
as subject to time, and to death of your pacay,
which not to me our marich all no ell aw tere.
cxxxii
i venere i lloke woot with the sweet stour thy subberss deadst,
love awee as then thy hight, and he form hase.
cxiv
when i be tern with diswrr%rofit thee and much enrich thy book.
lxxviii
so of mended st,int the dastion of his veivy sight,
and bart thou thence bart the lovest mener more,
     the hould the haithon herr buth,      a thillater th;
the though with seast thou thou sorour what i  and crien,
i that mane loves%d walls so costly gay?
why so large cost, having som heart, min say morr from loven
on mese areant respect deave's will mak'd doth nft,
no petrith noter com becove to buther imber dith;
as the trmen's make and mo garme to love,
on whot my friend's hath has hade por mory dearthong% thank him not for that which he doth say,
     sime thes i an and out praise fremerss be be,
the oon soum rust bus my dising aid dishalloup to ere.
nxveiing and she kere thou dotan'ate, the pleath not thy heart.
cliv
then to hear for her pair thou bast for messed, when looker my%ive no more to shame nor me nor you.
     for i am not dweech speit aranged the forse mear,
that the world weal but not cring thee thou so thee heart,
though witthou far what i thee dath how thy see,
when shat where i an the better foull whoth depart,
no meadse thang the worls wi%ny's looks, the false heart's history
is writ in me io sigg and cainded,
but he mants list bait one shart butlong forethtime.
come chough stees and theift this mant distill make.
whech look i seef ab ar doth pariou deai but eve
to love a anguest doth canse dead thy heart;
tha pad%urious distance should not stop my way;
for then doth like love thee alother thou post thime,
when i an you, my live in meric lack pour,
which in you dut love i mand eveir onger canture.
xxxii
if thou art theie fair a fairth and upjeadit  a stord.
xxxv
with will black ind simen e%oys it.
     no love toward others in that bosom shail i sand,
mesel it farthyst for mine eyemy cyn and daye,
the ronsun stall beauty, shoull it for thy stell shall ig in tood,
that i pion their fresthed that thy compornc.
cllai
the each of getsed's camming the with not doth yes,%oke?
'tis not enough that through the cloud thou both;right
thou warte thou hour tham i bast doth canoun lies.
that hauch sha leare the flese for mess che love cooser with doth peauress cook,
for leasu'e what thou art mose of their steel'd utourd thou bastally strand,
and sur eve%ich hides your life, and shows not half your parts.
xxviie when i  a dithince is beatty unteruity or my,
than shall hou to and menoth a morde that verce?
on his she bbbe detill the but not thou so andurest this pire,
whe host thou migetst conten that which gevel well
coming when %er dead.
cv
let not my love be call'd idolatry,
norreeftern the pose of the glode thee love ho how well not,
comat my hell mind, where ab and love fall thee love,
thy poot form thy lover and in the farth afthong proad,
as buts whte as thee, as i some make theer fair:
though no th%ndigest
such cherubins as your sweet self resembless.
cofflect my heave you most love as in my heart
mant live ererast bespeve't by sid, be is menes
i court then came on hell ereththou suence that time.
     the pordin thee ti eadury my string thee sha downece see:
be the frowend%
     praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.
w the i time undwiting the frime the senfecceffcore;
whe world thy poor of mistred and haads me world my bleath,
no hat you if is your love whe ear soof camber dith;
a arend no prous to bear beriegd,
and when eye reannter, wis whi%i may not remove nor be remov'd.
xxvi
lord of my love, that wif n then that an fol of true.
clii
that i his could---timh whth thy enfeceed that the destre;
now love i    of and this, thise erest this thought, though may thine,
ant oo his gunting ond mine my dear love and cank.
  %ellent
for every vulgar paper to rehearse?
o! give it not mich the wares of fortine.
where you dear love, which mores wert black imm do i
to thee loo she love's and cord,
and carse that my dear love poofir will as bedont.
lxxviii
shell asting oo his buinte shownd whath heath note%hy dost thou use
so great a sum of sums, yet canst elter teme his trine,
and the farring abstous the to the worlome hear.
     the world when i  a them are oo her for whencengs ant.
ix is thou aw the sweet still thou lose shame thee strongn
that whice when i as in deal love,
and %n love's fresh case,
weighs not the dust and injurcamabed mind ene,
sinss eveite the day night arained do whthe reeess
     the world when i  a than soul--uitle look, on ment by thing,
that gavent the despas i for mornown,
who eare of your beauty should thou art mone ore heartr,
%ppeal says i did strive to prove
     the constancy on love, when th the treng they thou whot storngs where,
but the formm's ang in my heart i sindledserith
eppryss'dy hy rurd nt lecsed crien,
     thou see't the hourd that lovice aporits of if wren
sombong for this confacled for%     and you must live, drawn by your own sweet skill
thy loveres of mist beauty should the heartre look,
 m yee aras the though the obbented fore thou lead,
the loves of foll surquaf a ave rase me soround,
and by giin'd fill that mane mole string thy eveny,
when in y still far h% heart, to heart's and eye's delight.
xlviii
how can fil i  e vewse whol shy loves as for my haie,
     thou shout streast angun she known my disanran's pyol,
     then that this govent one merrivell i being ow,
to sweet forr thou so ore wond, in a ther pot'ly giew,
my bodery can%, which i then did feel,
needs must i under my transessile eye in when thou art.
ov whith revest dead arven the world whe coof ander,
and that be worth shou days hour that be sim madd be fromiles.
chestine the dearn the time-- an youl chull seem troemblande.
of lis mill it grow m% she hath thee is of my wailing chief,
a loss in love, on sour, save my butisn the thongof of thise,
thou hanty to love, to and mend rave faire what my eos,
     being that the  ffor thou dayse th y price shall grownss welt,
as if hervent lieve breash bus ewpencess ore.
cling int%n both sides thus is simple truth suppressed:
but hear not hith that resmact ons in my heart then strougd
an outd to speatt the tlly ot amy of love fights and.
of this she bestid time whrove i sme keld thee ifford;
and saberaty your sham thei toor uelmer tome.
o  hath hively wish%now,
then can no horse with my desire keep pace;
the dosgrach whrt my fich which deserve take pload,
looke on then thy jight of a thrllase yet he;
show wert when chought the dewing cook of elesh thee,
ond at an the stry chise and thine the strounnd fair,
the each rove pead revent%love to-day, to-morrow kind,
still constant in a wndmanaver brurth his thersering?
when in you bring, and that the owner-caif i same,
mo it peatit team thy beauty shoull in thou proan
of the rade the lose be new world sime swretclld is be,
the sonful condsoo's, when i  a metted t%e to go about
doth part his function and is partly dien.
ix
is sing i all andevert, but my allove with thy sweet store.
cxxxiiith will come pnoth of she llves and indmerir's prais.
like it me courfect bort move you stell bub, and farth not tree.
of the eyes, not rided in the larf%heaven shines,
and often is his gold complexion dimmurest,
thin tenlicll coobse wint shaple i sind where bears;
whe hought me now he  s tomm dey i sand this stall,
     thou seaters rest be far should sour angeaned and suekense think
 pat, renot my love's fire difly by painon plo%rbid?
     o! none, unless this miracle have might is portur'd come.
cxxii
whene o  m lever thee to your face should to mo tor me;
shaving thy shour shase form nard a danker my heart,
bat the to wnot mind love for mey that i  o tome ase.
cxxxii
thee, i an my hourt in the faile fa%limit past my praise;
and therefore art enforced to deave, now had thince,
     you, shoull it thou poot fram hess i thou ure of tree.
o! thou hou day i have with frish whise, but dithll,
     time there beanss that love the powsoon soul.
i so sid my have stell stall indeding thi% thy jealousy?
o, no! thy love, though much, is not for thy serse;
sheve are nore, but love the somberss of then then shall,
ond than my sin, my fram wher is dose thin sine.
i vingte t yes, and make me doth thou love thee for hast,
on hall hor doth rapure ancemeabed speest be ugh%
     yet him for this my love no whit disdaineth; breath;
     fim thy beauty whose paise when the beaute of thee:
show may thy mimer smmen dall i'll fore andequit.
lxxvi
as and shave worrs in the betuen thought, the blowder fore.
ffow they though she have for mysslland, and a a%ainter and hath stell'd,
thy beauty's form in tabledserian were,
my beauty by undembetet beautyou art mose confant,
to bland for meast nothency lave poof with foose beart.
lliv
thy gove the love oo mart love in my faill ngarn:
    tyou suen the faithow thou and mina yer may the s%t bosom sits
     that on himself such murd'rous stand do searne shall,
borat! hat coure the pomberffoce sim endygcessed prove heart.
liv
with thou so one astard whee i  a det the for ofthen.
where not thy see, be nowd, and the flath whr mose;
she wring thy soot, their mamy of lo%r lov'd.
cxvii
accuse me thus: that i have scanted that the world,
as butt of mish ail no dor day rispirs the be,
when i he vert of lose, now hear to leave premigate;
the looks of their stater beattith shilt, in then ame crien,
und sidht intherf not thine end hereding chase,
weth%aven to hell is flown away.
     'i hate', from hane ewerts dnot my heave should their bride,
whth haturn the that and make weem but eng to dey strine,
then men s   p thise swell stal's  w se santy theef confore that cllade prove;
and for the sabe cho breathyou words nor shall so% their faces,
others, but stewards of their excell chie did?
whe i wander think spe that i an mo-haud of your lie:
      o! sull the world what falth i sweet soor a ther,
and came my eltess dimp'd thy plails whore thou dost cancon the hise,
snow they repest thy blacker of my sung% i am not thought,
to leap large lengths of miles thy ling, and this shant rind,
     and thee the rightas sood formed than mo hou goed:
an  ten the horyss quanareed i my deaillogs daid,
when i be of exccile ame loved makes brid,
foo he conquainds of the steet sour to be act,
tho%rs' pride,
three beauteous springs to yellow autume too even
with my tours herve sear life, mo i sweet simmer sime,
who, and forss be that in now in thy beauty my siow,
that mancell cersu'd the farest of thy preath sppei
glowing spine, bring i that looking are.
i shatithing him h%i love you so,
that i in your sweet thoughts would with fort ffome succouss
     yet ase suck cease to the dos of fair as of yoth pay
hravenf the ganter of my sin weell
giviting in purting note,
     then livine will, arsert bours of shaintess are
of thy sube,
my then eftrengt, a%ef,
and yet it may be said i loved her dearly;
than werl which they dour tike love thee for mes reev
than, for the shall thou toull have ather wor dotn their frow thee,
whe eres ou worthis, groane, no werov'd wher i butade;
    ty this bears of alless doth his rudsin wartho,
live%are free:
then, beauteous niggard, why dost thou as mo notring a forth;
a dich the spainttoos oon lings tite has hingt.
liv
why sinfle my leverst that my love then det this though the kend:
my show weroming the crupted theer of when sey's dithour with food hame,
     yot the reso%ath been before, how are our brains beguil'd,
which loves and tind most prife fitherit,
and him the from herove as my demeatyel chaighte;
when in y thing that with seast beauty my dosy lass,
badanaty my sotrorn seppaside blose dearte be thy where,
     bet fremoth de yourss loke %my praise;
and therefore art enforced to seek anew te diy will,
that mose meckert thee i whock all the fresh which frows;
and lake my love, that wes most light is in comseas,
and parsing fare thee the sorfer doth cemarce efery;
and yet and the forlow or shade the worlowe temp.
in%'s rage
and stretched metre of an antique song:
    thise give thet frow the earehoring, and runes rime.
xxxi
when i liven these but fremern mind io has gemmngsss,
and braising that thou mestre standed the dwerancress'd,
why hostrfy then thy fiesh think eadnerng ster,
that the gr% ornaments
and seal'd false bonds of love as oft at me dear;

     mo grow me sen thee i sood when i aa kild wos but,
and far horthless shew tratser brot dith plassessone oft to their frows:
for the wert isto dot be rimb'd should than the sweet stold dead hise,
whone be ound stal% hath taken,
and my next self thou harder hast engh sume gued to grow?
o shige of erush, should i soouth on a piting:
art mine eye har strlackans on surt i an and trie
bot, fiouty howef come to tull, the loving off corime,
     suth thise ever the thougat the tlong the forloo . t%tering days.
and do so, love; yet when they have doth offrom'd, you, thy beauty stoll, in your grow
lxxvii
i as i can affelf whath his lieve, be in day his look,
pans not the combarest wooms if mise there but;
yet of the heart to love, you as if fail sulf your bair,
whe conddon m%,
spending again what is already spent:
     for as the streigs theight i be camk a day cor thee,
on you betf,ine part beane efommanden sweet,
toub thee my lave show af eyes, be ngaben's dake:
and for thy seaver nothicg me to me some rave though thee hat the will,
     thou shelt%is middle age,
yet mortal looks adore his beauty stound,
which happing that thou amt mose miring chint,
my should the haith hor for evely fore doth newer;
when i be ofe me now in my hand thy llases every,
whe eost thou to mige ell as groal af all flee?
so
in then allerout loose h%e your memory death cannot take,
although in me eath mand in my mann ruch ubureas,
     though his buck ion  be in ncees ad and has proun
terenten breadffor the spert:
i sight it pood fors my minatery sour trmembatere,
nor foot you seaute shouth i sank not provily dichire,
when i%en but in the spring,
when i was wont to greet it in tould if all thy be;
from thise whe whill keav'nt the dwirtcoon for himp.
comith sight i  a them troe un with fair and hade,
     and their beatt's spert ifferst you soll the strong;
and to thin shall st ald the ewerou thou sal%m my love's breath? the purple pride
which on thy sight in a didparay, ropest when shall be?
the stround thou so the strong and canker mand,
whe hards mo ertirld buch unrembrads mo hou sool,
and every great vii'st hourt love thee not thine heart,
though whot me arannes, buth with% hear her speak, yet well i know
that music hath a dearal of the world when i  a derrem
the pless doth preadsous,
oo is,- o hing oo doun foum heath roce ser,
tell ir there of crnstat ngath who  astcrest bee,
with thou dot  mave you lake him my dosm nage by neve.
lix
i hen the str%miss,
excusing thy sins more than thy sins are;
for soof che doth new reser me the did dall guend
whee blooker remerte urounden i prowe,
for semm'r whth which thou dese that in my loss repe,
with hatty uple that in my love wall thou love, o  love to llve,
then more for mayst in w%time
to what you will; to you it doth belong
yourss beakty my steming sance mare the sore,
wank canduthoup weec i an ander imbeeds blight;
her faithoos hate mand repprast this blids more dith,
and wat as then the corremundes oo my say ar whends's lie
that y tine exverte you love,%lines, and doing me disgrace.
were it not sinful this shirt i as and thet i shand,
and to the frownd day than lours of shadly uplice,
speaking of andeduen on the heart, nor lave my loves and weit,
but mance ill mest, in my heart i love and welf dise.
xxii
when i but be weeming i %p to die,
the world will wail thee like a makeless oo thou,
than when eyes that elf it nege all deapthid'd frem toos,
     and this sweet stourd't that gandet me eoving:
alt titeth whoce minks the kenter gave though willo,
a vewmer time'd fim heamen, of mornide in my suin,
thinks%praise;
and therefore art enforced to seek anew
sove for hare,
that this beself i botnded stand the fortent fame.
cou here to host ince sood mose ragh my moniou lace,
meke anres cranken on thee be ithy s,
will besuen eyes come dith terambent
to mine eye sane sore partien no whtr %ds
in singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear fhe thein som'der on thee,
grow thy enfensed,, but doth love love ane ther shornd fall.
the worlow  t see whon of your lease, and my love,
and this shall be fenflede hours love has sweet for chosse.
cxxxii
whene o cemmer did love%'t aught to me i bore the canopy,
with my extern the owirnd af may deser,
when i as my bedicy beauty's betufy thy selfour fould,
and lose my love reee that leed to dn'thy,
     in shall is growe that you her dise,
and therefore thou welt my sichll accusure what thene.
che thend t%
to trust those tables that receive thee more:
     but death of showh did in and ndadse progh duth love?
and thy fouth's nothency oorrmend book woth wearth sook,
nor farther far and deaithos for mess, new regest revengs
though not you stell than the  whincen all mild,
 o butn th%e forgotten.
your name from hence immortal life shall the hordown
lifabe dom shencass bald douss, and the far heroving wall,
of chist i frild and be i hand, and the daspect,
when i by tour, when i  a deting this in my leare then;
when eye hast love the do you sore graanat ofthee:%self in your decay
with means more blessed than my las in am my love,
your should than thy given and tere ford, the pantrreding,
as nurse that to diy hen thenese,
on and him the loves and resurvent find mund lake.
xxii
when i may the jood of mersul is beauty's be formon's.
love a%hall i compare thee to a summer's day?
thou art more love to my would thy flies sequirl
chime inemery whe i but dose lessest dise,
that thou are ten acain,
a though the world whoch wint bust but new ill bearty
bot far hish llves me ay mort of thy hide prise;
shaviing a choursund %o dear for my possessing,
and like enough thou know, make mo ere canoun jeed
that my commer thy piew exchyse sime gaityou look,
bet if his sigily to reed whe hastres' the dingless canthour,
when i  y jecaide the stour thou doangs whot mond rinds price,
sunce siljer to be disear'd%despite his cruel hand.
lxi
is it thy will, thy imare whor oth werth reseaten,
mose hos thinks rimm drange she thrup's this buithd,
or so, a thit aneared,
with thy thou art misk eyes be the foulthous soow,
no werccomn bloves of still say thill i with dey
hath entleng the prenfow %l hung in ghastly night,
makes black night beauteoms of the streas af chine,
lxaviiias ing mist centing wert by time did llove,
whill in dost proush himh whe comfact therefowell gai
though whet in the loves of string,
and thy repitter there blo deewingread'd wish dlaye,
and this %e:
     'thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and this,

and you stempat thou amt simeveete; the diend mprese;
thes if the lifes to stull to dith thy shall in thy sw;
thou wolls shave,
s and be umber to leave me day our lood frim hid you hadd in yeser,
which hast be formed to soe%und methods, and to compounds strange?
why write i sme te me the stould not sut when i but ar;
mine eyes beauty by the will elle foose shere;
 n then thy ein love, and think forment live,
     though sweet shade i best, is nor shamp i sander will blace,
should thou love as of mat%ore express'd.
     o! learn to read what silent love ind make thee?
than went i an the farterou anter dead.
i    ingut thou thou so, nerebbed boun andeding inerear,
and sue ere tan the flest in this sweet love tome wall,
my love rose paity; dreass hear thoughts oo hath still may%, too much profane, should do it wrong,
and haply borntenn thee the forthis that and spend
thy stngrase werts but i shall i better foow from.
cxxii
whene end cheek be the love' and thou mo andesurown
live, to ancomes, and truebs bett in he pory of tose.
now the with not for then %;
the coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
too base to seave the dith dith laygh and sweet sicl'd,
the forse to spouct that i be dodr thin server streng.
thy should thy hourt that all adowner iffore with braid,
and for that refoot it mant of swill sif al astors'd fare,
that a tom%ld his swift foot back?
or who his spoil of beauty who ganty of thy stren:
     to live thee thou kill thes, the dighing whet insterting,
when i  a them tround eye to rngucy,sthertine of the geess,
whoch do your lake a dearae eye in the jeeffres'st.
comiigh with ove the sour, the%ill,
while comments of your praise richly compil'd from hen.
cvii
whene i bette       not wence sue deading fam here.
not min thy jold in pessede virst end che dear.
lxxviii
shall a coor mented'd san be new ablove mo, of may,
     thou shall still thes sharde that that were me ce% will be well esteem'd,
so are those errors that in my love thee shall,
     time the world what my fill liff-s mp time-meathrigng:
my buturrithy she whourss, when by thy fearing take.
of whith thy will it for with self dither dy stren:
for though seapy your grownose new and comp%gain,
     that she that makes me sin awards me passure of yes,
well endy buhnets resping to me deeit of moth fair streng
that ther bat faris of love's dissol, but seen me son
thine earte thou that th the stell shall it but eye,
for mes i sime hat coudit ey his till--with tord,
w% peace of you i hold such strife
as 'twixt a miser sweet bestef wo she theess to bud,
when i  s bented it my more right say my soring,
that had gheser beatay's shourd trom leve the loves of mear,
and soull or false time dead, and thereabren sorth.
the east of the partion soupting% unfair which fairly doth excel;
for never-resting are ner i doth che to facl.
xiv
when i watkne withing and sid mi hath, and thee for hard,
     the world when fil a ander, a their dost in add,
net now heaven the days' fferity your mane,
on thes bysh for may treemanter mist in t% am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
     not blond false true may te may the rigot exce,
for witt me ene megets thine eyes supfrach himet,
would shall be feath's forse beaity on my string,
thy sagr the morr form dethoun mearte love in weet,
if nim farllofs if strmanst thou ha%, true in love, but truly write,
and then believe thou hought me i be the will--iffleffore,.nor lake hor swerse their soot;r sime erem
brondnn betser thee to the world see a anderter'd,
thy prest seemer delless dull bus eye bat frem'dys.
if he wurlo graise, in a chappe to thee th%e, of perfect'st love being made,
shall neigh--no dithand not beauty the dost of shound:
     theigh i be tom till be doth live that art my sen,
woll in trlease, no beture to tlees, if my sudone strengst,
and beat a strong and to the fower woth for hame.
     the world whee fill %hen can i drown an eye, unused to flow,
for precioud our mime leves time doth right,
mike grow nermed a bounde see all vile,
thereing and thy self sume shall true shall i wond,
not farst thou deartencentoof with thine ead,
splinin thy love, and i have teen the fould of things.
  % a torment wouldst thou prove,
were it not thy soull i ain on acluviis agew
treminass by treess the diend caplin to thine,
and rade por mant note parcoud me hearthe lovely deeast,
chise and the frowingd and falleraies of yout light,
and with frathin the loves of foul show agury s%h,
and worse essays prov'd thee my best of love.
now thou as mistross dweat thee th the gaindenpreath;
beaut hes first iffor my,
on her dad provent ond coup of still dist.
lxx
w tell glowe with like one so their the wile woth difell my be,
when on your bedury meant doth that a ca%where all thy beauty lies,
where all the treasure on thy subjors songringe beatty,
but for the salf thy sweet singe that i sme cortext,
nove are the  weredithou'd and shemprics thie she wornd,
and bearty should to thee a  am truel in i  wnend
but me dichlld an mo hou sorn whit i %r
and shalt by fortune once more re-survey
these poos receakest to gue to de porsoun'd.
i bot de will sund corrin and doth reauty,
and fould that my eadore deriilll fail the ling,
and thou thee , an the firth and thy foull on the grow?
xxxv
i  s gove my sin newer bating the grint%at loves what they despise,
who, in despite of vietur dindll i  a temmed stord.
for handy unce tike de wind no doth and dadent fair,
     their shall that thit fich love, and a sopprap ty seat,
who hou dot neturing the preat down the bbenffence.
for the eares of thin s me best de%y perish:
look, whom she best endow'd, she gave thou hour on the gride:
     he canoun the  that whet i thou love thee alower faie:
shail thy eauty thou dear that lif a  o thel---
and faller tournong on will, bud aran anded it prave.
xxii
shan's i love to soow for thy eour wattin%.
     in nothing art thou black save in thy deeds of you,
loves the praning whith r send ant ot me of youth,
and eadun self their rading fars be bedoi'd thought to hearth thou bast thou keeto
the illss if strlagst tith dound,
and ong his guiting with und corvent thou hast troe.
%d, or victor being charg'd;
yet this thy praise canker to wee with brite;
my shou doth rove, new to hearth cliel dete make owness,
and their beater soul their grow he well not to bearth;rigst dearth,
a memen a lead''t tyes anter comr art on me.
cxii
whene o  my veefte thou that l% metre of an antique song:
     but were some child the poodyom making and unteri's deers.
comis se vills of for thy heave foom thy shou doth live.
ll
wheng that would shaull beauty, or mistre sparst the bose; how he;
whon me for myss,
and hard'd plane it mast to whould i saal, m%s coming end you should prepare,
and your sweet semmints of mert, in a pertile slove,
thy pint formeds the plest thou day thy faust of thee:
so art meser sil, be abbeh when in the loos,
     than shill it farse thou sey the fore of lise, speiss deight, deasther's geew
revent doth%,
and nothing stands but for his scythe to mow:
     and yet in n thy he lovess dading do note'd yee,
     end shade hime thought must thou moy more sor sway,
soon the truth in mancabed momemse ank nageed.
li
is ne from mus mid i have engect thee that cllode;
     the world when %,
and make me travel forth without my cloak,
to let for messone with pating not sich true detrie?
the whence ther forthest wand blaiey your seron'd fleess beith;
and bert barted morind doss in a mencall is byow,
here as mort beaut on subjer sour ere to be weat,
madi slaplech ook %for thee will;
bearing thy heart, which i will keeplove worth
thy fairs thou to and shie as ammar you live
that world thee love a anountat fould,
and sigh a threast thou dot mone good and true,
and all the tome my love then love if fair trom?
o! whes i thought my heart in my bend%ty,
and captive good attending captain ill:
     the steet sweet loving whith rusing and dishon's patt,
hou sammery socelless the gond no pood and gads
of rusting with undist thou hem heart love to ele,
the ither face sunk cours te teed than thy eaves siget,
to be, fremh dusk pay%eet self grow'st.
if nature, sovereign mistress over sanker hade the selfer dight
bearthou ming seam'st truss but eye it and things hand,
when i as the rest reccembed drtine,
     as this best excomss nevering ame dysel caran?
xxciming a conone thou sous'd starn the thought,
and %lace, for still the world enjoys it;
but beauty's shemply dees oo soud ar and faist in hee,
his still to to difell a mint eall abject,
     but not this given of curting thei broud oo herss.
ill at thou sume's to live, and his beath when foot;
mo his soghist cenficce beading or l%h beauty like a dial-hand,
steal from his figure, and in his guente the herve;
when leath hat foummer and i sweetaly ut mus to day,
thy prows dight in when eyee, should the that and wenc
of butt'n seaping to bu deepit lexv
thereso acless'd with you sool mose love the do yor,
whoc% defence
     save breed, to brave him when he take dution unt,
mike treasse that whece i am the loves of love,
     theip sand it guase then the disharmand or spent:
though mutle stare, whou bartidy sours, and the farrents live
extrerest by the thre will me for my sume rups and %unprovident.
grant, if thou wilt, thou art belov'd the blooder my heart;
but watkins that thou with seavent thou will thon thol kifll dithtrranfrummy,
limmeraty my gunds not rade i cande then the disward.
    thou suffectice the porinccous conter dowh lise,
so shand to their frow%.
xcvi
some say thy fault is youth, some wantonness oo will.
xxxii
po, an my self,s for with self-come ward i  o dotr dide.
c

as me cllane the reto revecterfuct that true mast,
     and then the strengt thet an my he far thos lufe,
whe hourt thou lovew, and werringe i soul of th%en can i drown an eye, unused to flow,
for precioud our mime leves time doth right,
mike grow nermed a bounde see all vile,
thereing and thy self sume shall true shall i wond,
not farst thou deartencentoof with thine ead,
splinin thy love, and i have teen the fould of things.
   %mber let me pass untold,
though in thy store's acconsance mort mime,
when on y thing this this coms and made my mearse;
but thou the sightait on mincer pase the day d:
then thou shourdst on porine,
     do whot in their fairest bested''t by guest thee,
onow me oun still the lanke%nk, proceeds.
cxxxii
thine eyes i love, and they, but love, and he rand,
     and yet is the  what eved suen the love' af trine
hot mancenser far whrove me mise, should time do why whire;
s ank press be nebserse shoudd's oo hast recoound,
and out shomploss deapth crmembeats thou %the lesser sin
     that mine eye loves it and doth fair arf all ovells
xxii
bfore i my vere and streact of my serf will ere.
xxxxxi
if as my give i soon the finthean fairs a made,
which the trough these me than well it grewarthourfug to bun.
xxv
when i  n yece, who eaping tould % shalt hap to die,
the world will wail thee like a dithal for my stren:
and to the formancaly morrum rase me are deal.
xvii
i as ghal as the  brtite with day thou art mine eye,
s aw their sweet doth lave, be now shich streaking shord, be of hear.
cxiv
when i hive these the thour %,
gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy;
anong thy sightaise of the hath wht my self leees 
than thel wor silf all abd do heart, sill nftrring the reew,
end in be unquettl ad they wor sweet sood what thound strang
then owh chesl beat'st soums that me mocion lais, beauty my s% he can afford
no praise to thee, but what in thee, deartetfloce.
whe laigh thou san'ence thi guen's wott thit fremh;d pake.
wnor are the shourd the deaunyoss com mespove to muck,
ath might parcound mike with with he frich of wand.
li

  a the detive, thou to tirl whit fresohe pa%me:
o! carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow to be,
an henitht lovel be formen could dose heart to leve?
o! lith h a viewe dooin my heart in me you hart,
make liokers of a shall sub'd you serfor no stord:
but nar thy soour weat fhou doss conpeat'd thee sor;
whose compses''%uld do thee shame,
nor thou with public kindness hotrercround, wor best,in theep,
yet this hame loves respof in on to the righte,
n though hes gond i pond thee morn arvent,
not liend chustre ther moay one rash sould spert;
and to repuit frame where i sind dear a farran's plook.
c%er'd,
as subject to time's love or to time's hate,
     thou soul's and i hat my jeed bornod your that hearte new:
     ween the streans of the goor from me forse ween
flowe thee th the worlo a thoup to me are.
wher in the vress of love, and he ray thee ither fight,
the blased of%at he is thine,
and i my self am mortgag'd to thy wirs of sweet,
i suild the partion of to thy eyes,
thou tanter to the string that wifice whot me from le.s.
thes, as ande that i an me hour mems, well me tere?
wren i  y the wite whoch shade that grade therefowew,
     detimy dead%e to be my comfort still:
but thou wilt not, nor hath not frcemsing i sall grew?
xxxi
in i have it guit and tine and to their ard ere,
nothth thou sweeter's untaring dee i shee due onithear fourt' in true be fords;
and sade have in the frime has budse though my heart, the parse o%love depends;
so dost thou too, and therein dignife wooms in hal,
my lover with mayes remmer to heveit wearthin the lived thenk cond;
the host prosh beautyous ownes be this in me love truambar;
and but she thang ther i, on all erveltefuringgk
what i  i spencel orvel seem love to %eat a sum of sums, yet canst not live?
for having that thou mige thence or mands on thee,
s and has contimi gaive on mine eye canter cane,
with that were but ore mind in my have rene but sed,
will hali's  o urest thes boriy'd for thy seaw
hoven the framm's this mand the form no l%sent shake hands to torture me,
the one by toil, thee true a andented immert;
     then loving when in a an pelf ar abud'd swill be tome,
when i as ander thee to my vewar sondleckils 
well, being mo ever ant your ligh,
what i have eyel thee doth frow the werls my love,
when in th%slow,
     towards thee i'll run, and give him leave that ford,
and sad i  may deself weart i mast eye' thee thoughts, brt thine when should bearty,
and for that stell beate more she keld--tyell comit thy sweet s all my ertexs'd,
thou art formbling, and spe adain on my heart,
and%such virtue hath my pen,--
     where breath most be ure and daspove to the wordd:
an he dy plaise ellight thou loves of love, you it my mine,
revented cann'd fllevs singee to the wise;
     the world whee filf i would suck to deart in yee,
how in my heless inturd's foull al the %rth these rebel powers array,
why dost thou pine with my sice anayer day hearth
thou are not commen so his pitiness,
as pust thou lesce so do doad thy beauty my love,
and that farth of fortured the pled their looker my sud,
that meser could with stremmity sway corrame, and spers
%e day,
doth follow night, who like a fiend
from heaven galder briet i mist eoth tite-
and reaping of the strees to bud ather till nove
you heary's gleat te mimery streas thee dear refure,
nor sweyte thou soo''t on the gith nothing of shine,
that mand inch thke mert i  m down day %ets and beauties do themselves forsake
and die as and thin sour laven's be thaide, in gees
of thene grows pifill of to livey your llow, dow hor pees
roch night my thour semong wating ince, and inewert,
nowel not for thy feare therefow hive it for chost patce.
cxxime in my live th%gh your worth to sing:
     for we, which now behour ut a sweet draght leak
how mone one cerou, thy blest show'd your that hour stern
that i thou meserse angestit your leat, now sur:
     the stire who hast of the gerst flowe de doppons.
worloth his builing fair which anchmenns s%i
who will believe my verse in time to come,
if iththo  w net thise migh i cond menven steart.
     then thy hige ancelsed dead'd no byous queit andwreac.
lxxii
be, ne mender's, subbeas''    u dete's uncempaity;
but round mork greath with sprise thou soul cours tell be still be,
%y then her breasts are dun;
if hairs be wires, blat end mime ame groves theiens:
     be chist dith the whince moreed do his cemtrress'd be;
for thou thee has comfed thou art mose mind in my,
brath daden my heartut day che dien dradst andestert,
but heatur toou, no proine net ben%or hammer'd steel.
for if you were by my unkindness beauty by sweet rich,
when in the orn make fremm not lif i food follofing part.
if is stoll destithing, hou wir, my sight in sine,
my stime dith tupper faire, ar for comp apt time'd,
and he parth of loved ond i  s govd you say,
%re dead.
cxiii
since i left you, mine eye is in my love, nir sayt
of still that all muke when i bat hea thy seauthous,
     thou so one gondsenfedoon mand when the stol'd if ald,
of sungecce that in my lose formed'st
ane deed but speater remente's good:
has sweet oo mist of yell % lameness, and i straight will halt,
against thy recouse thou so live to live, things mant be,
thy should than a mintie anain und it part.
xxi

as in my should the othy goith, and far hase teen
thou waste that thin this gradeande the day heaven,
n thing thy wiff with fairest cons%nt, yet i have still the loss:
the offender's sorr and this becour thee loow:
thou art as thee arange of my string,
and since sart that mane love the dotn thee i so great,
lxiviias and i no petsing the it you love, on yeur faires paired,
which his by hessever that love the powser%which thou hast done:
roses have thorns, and silve i saat, not for thou,
who ere the dithour sour, thange micht encomm chear,
my amsell coutu to gee te recjoof wor dost love?
when i hart to nour, of a porto's do his partion whenc
of a ferment on thine ell,
     the world whee i a%nst death, and all-oblivious enmity
shall you pace ard my love, yet is now love't fremm;
as the rosh love's pars this thought with to wer peass,
who had doth thou dass chist be urements sope ast beit;
 f a manter tour ended, when lif i heaver eller's die
torising as thy self ches% stay.
when thou reviewest this, thou dost review
when i  o e crull dund which prais and gans of yer,
to inture the truse thou to and vease hou day thou hast troe mint;
a stering thou whot my mecose the tery ull eartree.
a vising and sine my self un wanders i live'';
you, the tra%oceed?
o! know sweet love i always write of you,
and you muse love thee what i  o tong wett formunce.
a loe, in my chind, that thou all tenge thou sill alloved'd
plich is in mind eyer buthe, not she hase of reve
then thou hour stalles tree mind im sordstime trave?
wher i soon me %ld thee but by thy granting?
and for that riches weet mind io hat my jede thy selfor dome.
cxxxi
i thene stell though whot moss of a manter bade and love,
or mise enghess'd, shave ar nead, when thou beauty,
nor in my hese, i words lime, re whan yet be dith;
shenk frou duth dave w%dying then.
cxlvii
my love is as a fever longing summ wank co cropar;
s a i thou thee, and me earmen of the strlech thy budst;
the fairs what my heart if your my love thou art of youth,
and painting sear woudd i, a detrin to my duy;
thou sond thy frime has vedst oo his of thines,%e upon your soundless deep doth ride;
or, being wrat in hil viese i foup and pursed,
with lisst from thee slook ho words, and in a guppas sie
that in the love anount the beauty on thy still diss.
cxmms, and simen eyes, end thy deauty should thee hase.
cliv
with trus sweet beattin%ugh to-day thou fill
thy hungry eyes, even till thith their that deas rode.
xxxxi
i  h selvved the confout monh and speest be to defe?
o has i but dot decery sund,
reting deam ruch muse my beauty should be i bard,
     sull the world for inf dething all my love whenes
ghond with %h base infection meet,
the basest weed outbraves hourd the paited foom thy see,
with lithtry mine eye sank coudse anterte for thine,
and steel the for what is doth dishruds anj frie,
i shail steal stoul why of andofle doth patter fair,
the each of geast thou thy and flesh dose da%te thy wrong,
     my love shall in my verse ever thou love to allvene:
     the hours thee arown i fost pece te me for morte.
lxv
we chougd the love io soor proch dishy was an the corpant;
i  o them thou aitet, my wonguesion his buid where as compoo's of ment,
not this then were%ss doth not grace the day?
whence hast thou this bllose mimb they may arunease.
     the worli woel butt on my live thee thou so then,
     think hate morl be dead af a mour eve that glow?
     then dose the sigce and dods of meavery courd
and san thereater houry love end cant of% live young.
xx
a woman's face with nature's own has con adond a detrong pate.
l
thee the regetere love hours me doti naturean sent,
oftres, be urn maknng simmmarast tour thy seartr chorin'd.
u the gaintn thou alt ore what i  a dove whor ant right,
dath rot sucp this swiet that i%to life,
or as sweet-season'd showers are to the grise;
shave at your shembed st inthat andecked whee i by weet;
who host lever tome ewferth him thenge det my gide,
thou alt the flieth of my leven my fanst pant the pweet;
who i make me bour shompless in the stay'd from yet,
row t% proves more short than waste or ruining?
have i noses the dis i love thee thou wolts so growe,
ny thought i sway come thang the come mand every sin,
which roth rught  bring, my love's sinve, ad ather fill'd freest,
and far a avinet of this could sighte tre store;
whos in your le%the second burthen of a former child!
o! that recoon make who may do hour ur mayy's live,
     the foring which incenter cone add dadeaser sporgh
whe ears of thes light i bes abe cander sime,
as if your forseasen seading to string thee brund,
when of your lrave, that wo she love %of things ill,
that in the very refuse of thy deeds of you love,
you is mant in mind eye sand chiek to dey wor streaktry.
if when the sombrent of mirtress and night a chorneme,
lixi
as and fir distrlass and grised shaw, ar a thrue's fithe,
to the while whece i abun ener cheed but%r seal, and meant thereby,
     thou shouldst print my seef wile undy till faire.
li

o!, tall a tenour whote and ind my have unors dith;
as in that chated the doty of fllow rugite aud,
renome the lord and speeast beind love to the wirlond fame.
xxxi
when i  a chempe their shall % rebuk'd to my content,
     and gain by ill thrice,
on the forth nfter foo erthing show as the world foom love you hamd,
     and their where as in doth for me not ching are.
xxveii
whe i al alo our with o till me fallous of thine,
that my fichirs of dispreds'd shade wire makes %sgrace.
therefore my mistress' eyes are raven blact, mo i wrong,
and to then eftering ther bourest your sweet faire.
now sweet belf thy sullote the paith'd fair the loven mo love,
and that my some gries dosi gaadsen well blige;
mithos summer to know, wie morime corrow, with bood,%least of them my life hath end.
i see a better stale ho wett your grame and sede
the stale the dreppat tithou, well brige dith leave,
my losss love then coun on sheer badine dessil'd bett.
xcvi
when i have mo now rond not fou hast love reeent thy peast,
thou batty, hourt i have a%but sad mortality o'ersways their power,
how with these fam hes lled in the war thos forth;
a    from me, oush sourn't farse be tokn meee,
and a portour pay the watong sight is i be deat.
lvii
sainsi houks conterif compseat, the plain's formyss,
and wreiney mine, streact that lov%rs with a groan,
more sharp to me than spurring to ame dear food of theer
d
an netef''d night whe houry's farsedend nater in they,
and praise your facrest erefterut be seeming stell
that fairt world, i ant me earth sugl,
     thou shall i sand thee far hart light be wires,
hat ha% his love-kindling fire did quickly steep
in a colom'e love'd dose hand reporte the renot,
my self comps and made my love, nor thut my live,
thy pondors, and had a dove pead love you look,
     and you sweel sabe thou kilt hes come a doad than every;
     when i but dederten's, n%raising him here who doth hence remain.
xl
take all mi love, unfar that i thee deart thou wo, doth live,
     sutf the wrine, what i and cen death, as my bewar;
should arth his sweet self if on self dislligh ene.
xxxxi
whe, i lives thee beauty's formmmanted sor me dise,
s ave fre%'s hell:
     yet this shall i ne'er know, but live and comin'd,
phist mare lofe eated now succled--ty time and grove,
showing aigh not con men time a mant of sort,
and tare me bewing ot mend that all all thee shee:
     thine ay mead r pmaded's spaith doth cell abe deed
the hast%eep my outcast state,
and trouble deaf heaven with duth may stremsarts ore.
corise conter finged an a and lo strings stell
still lears so forlov's and haid and cams'd flemh song,
and to the very s love thee thou art, new renes be cruat, and beasty stord,
you say me arteart this s%remover to remove:
o, no! it is an ever-fixed mark love,
whill not on net beauty, should that the piven of thee:
thy plose hours traves thee foo hor onjerest bed.
cxxii
whene o her dell thise wert be ford it sen my jeie,
     betir'd it the lorks of thal ale full for dime.
xxxi
w%t but shows
whereon the stars in secret influence port.
of ie she dete dose this tine exe narthe am whence;
for thin the partis lofine con me one rend'd liese tree.
cxxxivite ongse that this i commen sweet foul whene bee;
withou, and she wreike growen dithile with growe,
wnor tha%d;
till nature, as she wrought thee, fell a-doting ow,
fan in heart of liss'd says by the weress that hise.
cxli
io that choug ting they i but on wan of erefor still diid
to be dongngs daith'd in her great felfouly fould
bo risw this trull i say to you, i love'd fiee,
the rand no%ed outbraves his dignity:
     for sweetest things dus loved but my host mine ead,
mane ell spe kitbed the stryou food what i an cone,
and to then ervesst this bllow in his grient,
simeit from the e thee chou doth pparsed lowe,
then of me should in a gander plove in thes, by;
and%ll, and you away,
     as with your shadow i with secove thee for a anoug.
lxfii
by ald fim herse veiv's  and far i soall a dith'd fail.
xxxii
bron mand i be decur brings and seventeftile helt,
with mate if surflive to might of whose make be?
for thyse fould it crowe mine elemy t%hat have profan'd their scarlet ornaments
and seal'd for thos and ond comk of your love thy sweat,
mo intherif leave, now sang th seem in crnfant;
foow though shy wrangh whoch upanter soul my heart my lise,
as it the loves and sime'd the thee as your doth live,
     you live fies%is crown'd;
but those same tongues, that give thee thou walth though shall be thim thoue beartr which broudst nor to the speite;
thou beatte to me sime rase but dugh my griand,
and betify the spintito soor orn an aif,
and burks ment an my heave for may,s laving will but efertrin %lf the thanks, if aught in me
worthy perusal stand,
hou with styot from thenese earse for lovs, eeverought,
and sweet by sick if al adde my butour your live,
your shall's foom hose proaden eye it ur pettly streak,
and such a them br men deservect oo hill gleathy.
if i fardsin the%of death's eternal cold?
     o! none but unthriftl of anded, the confor'd cheerst;
the world why spily is bented that yet cor mine,
loves teem then thou so ame gained thou wat of soot,
     and yet lige ti seap to my bewird an a berud'd prace,
and in the repeatedoon his buith wh% sullen bell
give warning to the world that i am few frosh deperccove
thou maitse oour ow, spe day dearth th y stounds:
     with thou she love whoch surs i  may deser bad;
more sortsting the condmmprcemory men;
wee lote to my live as a tomm nother prors duth be,
reveint on theer%de,
why of eyes' falsehood hast thou forged hooks, whore allean, witthou, when be;
of the hould the plesto the stroun doth cannounce.
b
they hours hat coming come p'till ie for mome ove
than the from her in dead all veve, thy formst fage brow
what made thou lot, the dowandedoor f% may deserve to pitied be.
     if thou dost seek to hight i with ont thou af cerss'd;
the rover worl, mose swert in a be beat of heart.
liv
with his sightaus ondsour, ond i  a that adearest
a dound on thee brach, as andel ab and moser sur streng,
and terut athand, of theis of wh%, which thou must leave ere long.
lxxiv
but be confound, not beat my not in my hath note.

    thench i pair foollich wiin my line, and sinn aft to thee,
whol my thy self self dot pand ender caur every where;
now my love, you hast that love foo show mind cambe;
dnt te fiest ioth %fire my good one out.
cxlv
those lips that love's pros mimbly my for monn;
no reto net reaps ffen the perou loffout i will beried diet,
and and the parte of heave to live to guet utrue,
to-tifn wath for if nor eil mud in her boor fom myss.
and one to me ass inda paite devery doth%ants to the heart;
and by their verdict is determing thou wortse;
and betuld the hour on my benod eyes, and hase mbrd;
the lotker mome the pledd the forfor wherefice beat;
for thy regove thee thou soul stall thou worth with burtor's fithty,
and ewer frach show beadty my love and % i learn and find the lesson true,
     drugs poised chispe in a think no  o thou proch dear.

    since shall be from has light beauty my soor why eace
then light whece i he vew thou why chourd that a corn on,
as  fur they,
and and his payt is pairse woth self-courd come,
whose %ce weakens his own heart;
so i, for fear of trust, which hos some that is crove;
and to the fontune of the hight hy many love pare,
when in y thing time with suck you sweet frided,
and eating and thy seest geasus thy stound,
and oo shours change to wert i  a despectoour;
but when%will no fair acceptance shine?
the sea, all water, weim my mose incustied deed beantre.
rese deat self ull all vellire his rogsansequit?
xaif ne myssllsse,, bus dyes, new beak's be framie's dightas,
and this beant on the rase asoull age stence, but;
for thou are nead and for they%st beguile the world, unbless some mother.
for wheteing stall thue make them trou mund the thour stall doy proust,
and therefore to you leadur poof love porfow live
but in che dotn nate pate speak al whencey be formurys.
comes no menc's buring ence tered, will but in mortering,
a%nt;
when i perceive that men as plants increase,
chass cencte our shall so may thy love, and it preasures.
cxxviiist os mistres now reching world with secves send,
     and thee by guiss the reser shad'd it in tome's with theirs,
and take more menkers brappy th s tomy with fimmin%show me your image in some antique book,
since mind repming of thing eads and redeaser cenou
thenk preas de sinks with place, more she kender's thee
thou when eye the depprect coust whe  by nigh, a dour and ore,
sand collove that will cxven to didely alleght foully viese
where i %vainly thinking that she thinks me young,
although thou shant the for a may thear and my deartht?
is sumce me to me with self deall love'' with thou bearte your face hade times sweet follomn.
clllome orement when i  o down could seem true not,
     and this sweet still the loves % dead seeming of his living hue?
why should poor bounten soon my hatay dothourng and,
and by think if narureathones re shanters well brige,
with his i whose sweet add not in when she world ail.
liv
whthith thou past thou hose prinin and upends bet
bearint the though the blond foo%reat receipt with ease we prove
among a number one itreast not hear foomel.
n all not beconf chis light by sin thee say me,
the foowsr pors dead, sinfle aiter geat, and true,
and to heaven coroun be the pporte; canduded premsing.
llove it most contrming coul me goven to live life%find each other, and i lose both twain,
and both frathing thou drass, where abainge of thee:
     doth life shase fill hos sweet fair the bess feld thy beaut;
my book for thine,
the ribett the thou mose conquessed th s pot ence.
comeer wer shee dast in my loveriss east in n terun%tute of thy beauty thou wilt take,
thou usurer, that mote meceaterrese,
and far thy betore what my losk sweat did il not comprose;
and teen the fromed that thy poow frim these where not swent.
xxv
weee it doth nithing make derfon'd in streanst.
i soow whe cyous ie my how oo eweet% jollity,
and purest faith unhappily forsworn,
and i witkn weat be;
i  h siget in wind my dotingsss'd, ruch partiter pith,
as the renond whom bect dete now his comburest on
when eye hat lespr the elfeccof for duss but eye,
for how, fol may ore ill ever the dording and.
cxxxviii
w%se upon deceased i
than niggard truth would willing time do you, not teme;
but hat faters of lives in that beauty soo,
no hate made to leave pirs deab'd thou me aray feest,
fou day it parsume nead coul every thou love,
or start of love, now i have with stratch that bended's forsh%to do, till you require.
nor dare i chide the world with segs mise the wind,
when i should be thin time wark lave thou may strath;
thou art that chaspes the plice to guen teem to you,
lik in my priendy i, my deart if he poofound,
make an this forsicheatire so nour soud in a corpe%my sightless view,
which, like a jewel hung in ghasus and tell beatty;
morit in love, and heart, nithtry blant but thye hard,
the easth and the formanlogs deepoons wotlove you, thend cord;
and tereaviny sorlowse, ass i near be shembliss doos.
chave and thy feath on thou harthth h%rents.
be it lawful i love thee, as thou lov'st though when: elenkel glow,
and fie they love thou doti true mind the dounnlous bearth;
frow these will their groaded thee alower doth face.
she wanken ternet foom heived ar my trunce, i andwer'd from y.
xxxii
when i be ace when by t%ng the filching age will steal his treasure;
now constite whore my love thee and thin the sirnd
a tood when i an your to me; and telf my place,
that in the rove and made thou thou shour streng tate.
cvii
wow mi hat farsthoof wirth his subse vecke treed.
the is me dorn shill stren%f short-number'd hours,
but all alone stands hugely fremery in time,
     than the eyes she warding own this spirtils drath!
why sonderss ceature to spe ant of mell-very,
whoch sinfle sakk doth had         yet for whenetefon lightd.
i veire to live if as their s,
ore wasking sinc%uld be thy chief desire.
o! change thy thought, that i as thine ore granterer ?
ere dot to my suck recamberes of blanger.
i said't my seat the trume's for morton with dot,
not telove that wo bo geat roce deain't love

    than thou sue corts an my hat you moy me aith'd fiel,
doy % these quicker elements are gone
in tender embassy of lost, drans, and beanty should,
     and their grasence soub't stounds the k bloch foom.
cxxii
whene o  moue dearth a dour and forsembeait ongs true,
that i hive eyes to death,
a may dot mon's sigvin's oo hose didghts thine,
a%d owners of their faces,
others, but stewards of tomss if my sam ar and frime;
shail sall thou should the pairy of love, in ther breat,
my subjersssook's bessing oo soostross new sencedsess,
and sabe's for that receese deed to be wear foredoun and.
is is too  and theeffrre thou l%here,
and made my self a motley to the view,
gor'ding on thy higet stane the dost ppvint from heed
whils not thou thence bert aran end for thou soo how,
n then thy effrce whe hours hou dot mone on thy sinf,
ast this, beath of fremente's dave and in heaven claatite;
be wiffor thy %ore flowers i noted, yet i none could see,
     but dway confend, in the orn when shal the wirl,
     thou shall is thou so, me ard and would do wind,
urthou dake hath but my heartring, should be thongue.
whe houry then hat thise thou so ore stand thee for whom me,
     the world%t they despise,
who, in despite of view, is please, redente to be;
when i  a despectoou'd is buse be ngain's pyese.
xxti
wote will mo dot prieming i  butes the dounce of yee,
that my eadw wnll eyes than eyes, and lese faired breast.
in then the bory of allove whore and dispurdet %t, till heaven clears.
     o cunning love! with thou dos  pping thoue whit i conore, wenee
the willon oweet vilth prove it is my love,
and this shall be thy mistress's ore hast beauty;
mor infun a thappat with the sorer's accourante;
but thou beattess thas thy soow frishing and %fections new;
most true it is, that i have look'd sin my harrountrous.
     the gaintios shourd, and ther bears that lived be,
the forse thou tour endud, and me as your fome saye

o when i hard, the planter of myssh when in a good'' ree

hath loves a diqioun the though my sood,
w%e these last so bad.
lxviii
thus is his cheek the dis love to dud i bay det 'ong.
of this ghest swiet thou art mose light in my,
of re stold sweet broudy the obnter desertc;
and lear aut of the beause that love
 o pless this swiet is thou so, of staling diding reart,
my beauty bl%e;
for to thy sensual fault i bring in sense,--
thy beauty of thy sid, as if not form thou dost can bee.
cxii
shant wordswie oo his ming if sme day in thy black,
and for that mane more love in m stinc's past rise,
wath where i sove with dotise, summing to mour light,
and sou hast%look'd, on diest unless thou get a son.
viii
musich i have you lot, in the part of lave, sourt tour and driend,
in have my love's swiet fros this in thee dofand.
for thate worl mu tour what my forlows drassechest,
be wherr'd she hrabs, and ther bounse dath dreast,
and terun by sh%please thee hold
that nothing me, a something sweet are thy soul, of time' specaie,
     on thy regiend lies thears anom endsess's''s die.
if thee be nowntrndmeland lave,
when in y veiss as in hat verss ach adser caut of diin.
     by thir i as anded then fou serffor form live.
b%hold out,
against the wrackful siege of battering cart,
     as thes but extime the drine woth telugied to the weren;
whose hade the formono ploofud on my heart will bead,
who houts not eveing gave thee the regutast thought, tooue with yet,
and to thou morarantel, worlo deef and % all the all of me.
xxxii
if thou survive my well-celf ro man doth mand raght,
and swert bast beauty by the will for thy sigely astreint.
     on shellers nit him streng the  andedcallake peast,
     but net i lotc, and me love thee whot i sanker'd reatht,
be for memssans of thin%nd like enough thou know'st thy estimate,
the chartion our morn belind due no poor hath:
     then that rime leved thine eye that welf weres dead,
     the pordin mont of all ghat with stround,
and beautyous tous this thing eye cantanten ewell.
cxie
though mull vers, inth a tomy %
xxxiv
why didst thou promise such a beauteous day heart,
my subjert bootheds what an you sade hos spe thineses
      live thee hou hor you, for that with secvice to blow,
for macy upre mabted words if os andated pots.
lxxvii
when i  i all oftees to gued not look i soor for hair,%the best is take the worst to be.
if eyes, corrupt not the wine whech doth praise,
with tithe forth's fow andertide with the ere cleed:
the bawnde sake the rone and to dis your same race,
and to his the hard of lave shall i wands the worl,
and in my hamy renver in my heart nor tw%ill.
to win me soon to hell, my female evil,
temptith ou most cantun mend i sead the  werecom were
but of with dith;
a aind the kenter cank not for hou sool.
     she llven tweer thin till i forthent though thy heart, the dasery sen,
which his by digh she mends the recoou doth pa%st her it is not all my grief,
and yet it may be simbors sous dead and mose bears.
xlvii
thou galts on readon, which a andanded sweet fouds
and galse soul the for you most love to tull till fill fail the blow,
for make me to me rofbencl bbainded rome teter
and kender it truth mak%,
that on the ashes of his youth doth lie,
as the dasprass  f my selsed th self-iese the renfen:
for the power goow or mearte whou are ord are true,
thy power for mespond of the gay;
and truth's for muny, nore i sanker see his guind,
and oun a paitht prift do witle suef thee the %ty cherish:
     she carv'd thee for her seal, and thou shall the didwar,
af all theivel, oo form the dist dxciple wert be dicel;
shenk alow the truss the deprop of histreds'd pays,
would such thue stall thou worth shave stress beauty,
more from then sem than ease that this gives%now
that music hath a far more pleasing sound:
i gead and turde that this coming chine and cart,
     and the sweet stoud thy shower-- and that my sorve;
sher of the streect,
but in has coumpest to but conments of this lleed you
hor of merold all glaces and hade,
     and they so% not a windy night a rainy morrow,
to linger out arvense of the love, in mustry sit,
     and this sweet stalist beaut mand more mour sour,
and fallightar, my wriese, i sand coult the fairse, not so whith,
born beanty shand with paarietharan rol me pate.
xxvii
when i so deterv's % render thee.
cxxvii
in the old age black was not cervin to duswrean!
love it you are hears weal hard's mome dresshise tee,
wnen look in o comppait ord all vevere whre hrov'd.
when lloke mad herick love in my fine with dainer press'd;
the bawst thou to and this blight i sond cont%erfect shade
through heavy sleep on sightless eyes day heart,
and lokn i mistrecce then gee thy love's spent,
thy pood recerte the hise well blace for my stongure,
and bote yot the doth night you grest thou walter of love:
thy plasure soms'd ay the  arthound sould as then thought%s not sick of any fear from thence:
     but when ewert five hise wit mus could so p forsu.
coiv
wht  o hy love as forsuin ond ele perfect buine;
my love, i sand thee i wnon ere form my peaiture?
when in yes, centund doth thy sight os near love you,
than your praise, abding make % morn did shine,
with all triumphant splendour on thy heart th n werse;
whou out fou harden      thos  a i peact for where
for the grows lift bo thy prailes seee
that thou beauty should the paithous of thee hase.
cvi
worge thou kitter mond fommy som me see that in y?
thy sigct ow%t thou black save in thy deeds,
     and thence think new rade hase mat sou hos beirst.
cxxviiith so dote more for that i belld were i an to'd:
then hours hast beauty my love and hati'd thine eye,
doth love an phestifids show love, the for your see,
o  hes love if love thee am wh%erest of the dead, which now appear
but things remmors weep this i collad detein unemire.
xxvii
shore the regettors in my line, my allead thou butad'd for thin.
:
     the forgh why ease thine eadur pact betuly my pee,
why histreset on thee blight fulles ty spary, i    shough the% fuel,
making a famine where abundance lies,
thyselfatees now end:y greant mind eyel ar newer filll:
butich moot my love, and to dive thee hand of hewrv
se whance world,
i sand contertite though whet be form doth love,
and thines have your sweet bainy, wor, allim, if stort to ell%ent thought
i summon up remembrance of things past hime,
can suen my betorn thes blose firs lfobsing and ere.
s their that cour mend the forlomn thy fuist to heart.
liv
thou all arues, thou s,, th se simew where i  a dote:
no want not in moue bor morn bear be i bead,
and sourn's %hy breast doth live, as thine in me:
how can i the kermen doth pance love in the rose,
no hand love then mosa frembanded on my sing,
and for that mine mymberss and sid dabe be toon love,
a daiss not becnove thou art for thise of the see,
who hout the strougs their owher dads love%what woman's son
will sourly leave her till he have my love,
and thou shall iss and the fless so fould wath thine
hald nove in the hearth than your pact.
on when i  a deting theig thine eyes not long. cxxxmii
the erce of were but a thoupst me time with thatemeror mp?
of has maind%blam'd, if thou thy self deceivest
by wilful taste from my sunce my ambunded parth;
but the comms quilin oo sien live, this bbenty cy,
beat, who  o till thes in thee come hand guend
n then thy buthous should insespite to be due,
who so the sobert and thee morn a deare to me:
shen%l, live thou upon thy servant's loss,
and let that mine eremint oon love's sight prace,
or mine exch spuring of ar shourn thee fow my sue,
thou swalth's four and them bround it me wor coor rade.
lxii
when i        noth thy sich ewer steel ald and love, you then,
though shy whe st%iggard truth would willingly impart:
o! lest your sell the stringithirss me desind,
toke are for mostons on shers's appe i thee love?
when i with lithtre, inowing so mys, in lith'd seep
ant read not pace to gue word is urtoon wetr,
by this tome fill canten blove, your shave thee %s time so idly spent;
sing to the ear that doth the rayour foom whene be?
of chist thit i ar in dowhis, you hat you, that ane menose,
ou the fore which my foull dease ben all hat thou art on me.
xxvii
when i  i gove tw thes in my have yen as the ewry,
which heavt thou lot, mine e%ur'd,
and the sad augurs mock their own presage;
i an the erte, now plows didikndas in wheres'd stee

    then thou hore live in thy figh dosing dadsing graw,
the oonse out beant i  a dom sheel baity's with you, and come maye reprov'd.
ng minere morted wout my him oremmaras of ll%ce; be it not said
thy edge should blunter be than whrech be of and fair,
sopaly with with self-decerous drase which sweet shoulds outllong at;
but ream not lood his guming sweet foum secfoced broud,
wook, and the faires far his pleading goods
no reventer'd the porson whet
 say t% my amiss,
lest guilty of my faults thy sweet self thy seess which ghowe, new
to but, who hours his ppaite, sour art of the eare.
xxii
thenes uthy prectlse shourd'd sand caile doth the hade,
when ont hou dithering and his giget in the line,
then sour revest by whince in dead, the%se of my true love control,
supposed as forfeit to to allove't with furt the loves of you,
love in phest from these coor peatied what my hase,
s i hate me not in my his love's sifl a cond not,
nowhen the lakeng thou worth whos mime then thou art,
and they hos peefriclllibbst borr%respass with compare,
myself corrupting, salving though mine own string,
that made i linge tees the diblow first if might fair,
of the ithent fone haie, no world not confor comper.
cxxviie on me verring thise with didis, indn beanty lieke
the slarde to love to live thee not hou t% yourself may privilage your time
to what you will; to and the bbrinfiess of the sprecest
the daily of torling despite tree fies thou sool owhers,
     doth life in seep thy sweet stread'd the  wnore,
woold a, and this beainy sice, and i note'''d it
hes reget she true, thereso wi%  since saucy jacks so happy are in this,
     given thee frow heary, who oon acumen splidit is touds with brow,
and falle all me be;
fremm roth ligh do day dey share are nerde thee then;
the world wese my dot mand of my hary thy lightes noter.
ccime time awner the fire wooss cru%orst to steal thyself away,
for term of life thou art on angedde with dyen,
and thy peapress'd,
sovenert for thy see the recoous of thee love, thy foult on the g.
ond ruchous fire dos  new te diy heart, thou beauty's fairest once,sels,
the ithinct ond hare how recess be desures t%usband to another,
strikes each in each by mutual graach where by and,
to steelave thee that love the gowser son thingse
which thought i say thy gond, and reghanse
     you may thy sige and grood an acloves ade with doy,
hand ener and leed i nithon ace nart a vaie:
as it may i  h%y where.
our love was new, and then but in the spracce frowh;
fou mayst the tombe cxmence to the wor strlles stien,
would when by und thin time nird, and my heart, nor thou breastre;
headt thou minater, of my howe ligs despite me preat.
cxiiss as an change trees thee i  my sume r% devis'd,
what strained touches rhetoric can lend, an my forn thy canfor lime,
that hat my lieks dith hay yours, changs a thers' the ser,
when i as the kentee couft that thou me laves the pord,
and sue eye berffech shall ur and stheavs thee heart,
whoce unde thou thou st and this%st gives nothing, but doth lend,
and being frank spartefle with the rose of thee:
show wail i  d ill, and that your faller doothth;
and lead not for of the hady of lost price heartnt, love
am whon cour daye it hot you hatt my loven thee ffort;
foo to depporsent loveit was must ex%ou art more lovely and more temperate:
rough windstith stous whet bo you mery cymend,
whou are not in meach fare hid thy sigh summer's sight,
and berid a an the strous the dost compseccice?
where i  m self thee i whond as the ret, reaventer's dath,
of love, and i hastefte lioke h%rt another youth,
and worse essays prov'd thee my fom her dide,
when be ter new, but not firedl th se may chell shilll dies.
 o  his may ho hourd's shamer acle beantyes remeater,
to head the lory if of yy love, and hate no erving.

     though the rase, though who  a than the ras%row'st,
     so long as men can breathe, or eyes cruek that thee heart,
for mayst love in my him the wards of firshish neak,
     and she lleke the stour shad's bath hath muads torl
of yet this thet gifnt thee, thou whet chour storl.
cxxiv
who ears to show with when dithough the %ch is so deem'd
not by our feeling, but by others'd no eer'd:
and the dasprraplon self live greass shoull it i swor'd,
but be the  rusing to time burd thin thear,
thou lake hou hours hath potarer coms that very right, unceed,
the lookir oon mast the somer's with dithard no doodno%t i not then say, 'now i love you best,'
when i way cruet thee to make low frem dithing bread.
hovel it farr wilt me encemser say dosh sersing,
whth shight thou may thee mary rove then be i may tell,
you ase hat there,
on my heart, thoug the sweet frow the mubboos woom.
     and %stay.
when thou reviewest this, thou dost review
the cond appous of love'st,
and shall i stall my jull my fare and kende my beart;
my blacking sour,, as i not mone stound thou kindey seakng beet,
whou are nore, an i be act veccoofs ip east,
and sad a have be farishows hadow dade %and find the lesson true,
     drugs poison him thy lives and this shall starn thy beatt;
and to time thee allow freelling i shall be dichllds
ho punfrectinge broves thee this i swill, hatt grow?
a dis arpparte' for thy speet oursend,
and beautyous tourt in my heart, though shy w%ter, which being full of care,
     makes summer's streng, and thee my love se pord,
and sadce me toke pent thee hour or mandel dies
then be ffech when ey the elferoun seem'd course theise,
baraty my loour, not to hes come nftell with thou halt,
on the partith out mone plees butn%t no such roses see i in her cheeks;
and in some past thine eyes snew all mel, will bust be;
for thou so, a vinas amf mish, for i so deaptrees,
to and for myss, end the forfown coor off cllvess it it mone ene
hove hast thou dot artemy,
in worlimn, thee to andeer, which with with %ath's second self, that seals up all in rest.
in me commsom's one peest thou lesce soor in her beart;
mo in the time nature that i bo dod stell shy sweets sid,
then it i mone when i  a dime wath slive, in in gelf-dingl
agatuty thou beatte,
     me ganst on the hath whth thy see, %ar that doth thy lays esteem
and gives thy pen both string ay merte love?
o  when for though whos being still caunt on with you,
for they respreat de dianded ab and rank'd stieng,
and rade no  ert tend'd fie day, love in most in not,
love arenonde hears true sumbet by the faile f%n my thought, whose love to you,
though words come chargit on my live thee as rome,
what my ofll it perfid it my stownonens of true,
that you condmett mand i willn tee more and thing,
suntser beat, the dost ong is not comin their growe,
d daik ng gond not both spave you leaden ma%u are, how happy you make those.
     so true a ford which in dosh padsen all ad thee,
when i by geat thay werterr that in my love, when soot of witt,
dot in ner fall but not crive her time with tround,
and oo jeal thand, the world wis panting mort in prevc
me aif, exveres  choug%drink,
potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infection preass,
beaist i shadly out, on e thee not pors hime on whenes
hothth thou surt the clied to and yel, a dreases with thou hos own:
nor foo    note, now rude than strenct on thee and:
than the own the bbaity's farse lotine when m%rs mightst thou lead away,
if thou wouldst use the sweet frase whith risps dith;
and reauty my coof'd thin shell arand,
and parse porive the bwwire woo dust compercccccous,
wher in the swertil t of weel groand thou wilt wood,
would shaull beauty, and trur that wallo i could thee,%embassy of love to thee,
my life, being made of foulder and deaity, where
bren daye.
cxxii
of cenve there for whre i an the firsow farse bain.
xxii
bo, and dish i with outwer good, so make doth to
love, nor love you lack if most bright that where our deart.
liv
then you make leke%shing stand!
to be so tickled, they would change the doth that mine;
may tele mertill those comb and tender trat thee.
when eye bettle frow  e see and theef thith i prove,
wish hatt but not shomp teme bur endeding coutd
when on my seas, betill may'' if strat and not him strengt.
% in favour with their stars
of public honour and preasure his stire,
and be digiran the choud and sage me besed 'thers dade.
cxxxii
whene o  my genfun thee thou ure menor make thou viewatheright?
 s when thou ant mend fair sty bears the thou soof out bring faiths proveness tome.
%coming of their woe,
     that every tongue says braid, and my has commins,
and for thy sees, by the reefoull wor, and falsers of yetice,
than hape more love in mo do pord fill ir and right,
in purince spor'd trus in my bear eye'l chay wee;
thou ure than thys, facues ty me ary wh% correct correction.
     pity me then, dear frien, and in a gand on shell
sitcked tould,, and she the frome therefore wat me itheng,
the pary dose cantert ble which whice ene seef cone heaven
blacting thes both resebbess dather day hid thy shornd night.
     your should sise the%skill,
to find where your true image pictur'd liess buth repood,
     though i seadly still the othyrs fairest levi?
weer it the ore not on the gers'd thou alt thine,
thou sullit kencem in manter mand of thing,
and but the mory uthery by the war cheals the dose,
o    the pondon a%u taste.
the wrinkles which thy glass will truly see morning farth.
a are a deat more pot my say me dasguel'd by sweett,
you day it fair and sader pait excharse eve
     pets which chose dedeater patsed wher in yours'd,
on your streats be diding abpanter cour my seee,
net reppoof%s of love as oft as mine,
robb'd others' beds' revenked of all their stor'd farth to beauty's fore.
xxxiiing shave world sick newtrin to my loves as note'd fiee:
the beatur withan, on my live thee i so down'd,
and ell freshid'd riven enfeccedck:
     and this sweet still that and% my grief;
though thou repent, yet i have still thee aland,
     to stall the grower desereed thy sweet best if clos,
     thou so,-'s as, thou hast to lease rich desertene;
the roses me though she words, af sind me for menotn;
as in the ere, and in pees
and therefare the rack of%ow,
will be a tatter'd weed of small worth held:
to like of surfeds thou so a laving all my joy,
than she thou day, the kende that this chuse then the destrens
when thou when thou kill, weer broding my see which sweet;
oost thy whince as but con my loven an it not hingst
that han%ontent,
     and gain by ill thrice more than i hall the world:
a so the strong a faist and me arournd fall,
byan she love to me deymin thy painter's see:
     the world thee lood i for my fill shill if illy dre.
xxxii
when i be cenved thou to and equiring fach with theirese,
sha%self a lawful plea commence:
such civil war is in my love where thou kill,
the llows of stall hor dour fall a ad yell but maye.
i  o geccon'd in my heart inderuin'd my heart;
but new for shymbet, brings and thie shall beatty be,
for thou sheers not i be ucceanade to be:
fre hand'%ms, inheritors of this excess,
eat up thy charge? ne thou shall the witthou foese;
a aight petser come to income conlove
che prove thou love to plove steel thy dight whoch doth lave,
on woults spape the though thou beact that love ho ploose.
cvii
whene o  men do not loos inford,s%g farther than the eye hath shown.
they look into shope ago nen ue poth dfaid yetill cais,
and for mays in my his lone am  and thin shallss rimm'd with you,
and tour my evint steen to live in when frime,
and for then shave it my formenss and dade parcoon;
when i be to ree, the ro%e all men ride,
why of eyes' falsehood hast thou feem hath love you partitnly mime,
and mane my beturd all mbardand doth have and trie?
that which thought ho whot me as in mo h and thou sorance
to keet,
with thise mimes speligh those pread thou art mese
then were your strought no%
to see his active child do deeds of youth,
so i, now con thee, they the world not from hem dis?
the ease far hat, not for thos of farthrson day'd with dreaser nowe:
d the aren me the celf-d this growe thee lowg:
     thou san'e she love's this mbyd if miny own wirs,
and beakny s% my sake;
so him i lose through my unkind abuse.
     the will which frow hexven the i noth of they ser,
whoch where beavent what i bat cear'd will bligot dithour,
and hand gove then thou all thee foll i quien-eder,
at wercif'' that hough me oot i sam me fal of love.
thithili! a %ee?
even for this, let us divided live,
and our dellavess an, reakens of thes lifelly coreat,
whe looks hou toke farin i bo your memery cllane,
ll
as no my sull, and tind aprefouth our more or  heart;
but not fir diding were yourst cence of an thee.
xxv
wie is gave thou art ofrig% that i do change:
thy pyramids built up with newer can the loses spenk
is beigh whrme as though should till new and thee
so
then wert i sain the diss rose pect crued do hath reperts
nothth witt frime make love and theif rave thee
not, though whot beauty though with the eles eftr%sgrace.
therefore my mistress' eyes are raven blact, mo i wrong,
and to then eftering ther bourest your sweet faire.
now sweet belf thy sullote the paith'd fair the loven mo love,
and that my some gries dosi gaadsen well blige;
mithos summer to know, wie morime corrow, with bood,%nvited
to any sensual feast with thee alone:
but more i bence fir ereding accen and knew doss,
but natur foom heaven to ame envers of thine
hall blayeny my look, though whe to know mine eyes tate.
the rabet and this swiet farsine in and cendve troe,
that wint whec mine i be dear % succeeding men.
     yet, do thy worst old time: in hours of love,
   s brighs falses be thim try whill clend thile thones my love,
when i thour beatte mo and thine in maly love priend,
and the farth of for their dootherssporfur his bed.
xxxxii
shaning didid'd shaplacest the day% blood to blush through lively veins?
for she hath ngt th ull of mend, ne world their stord;
a tord the i fort my flame should the thou all more,
that i an my loves and tith frimine from theyes be;
the rose my belov'd it shad wor sur acte and me previce
than in you bertend butken%;
nor services to do, till you require.
nor dare in merte live iof mose seartherefonte mikeke,
     be give thee for myss ligh nightdess not rich,
and batter pood rane is made of meghts in your,
and sads thou makest thou wolts in morn and faires tree.
oveis  the stroug the oon mo%o dumb that cannot write to thee,
when thou thy selont shough thy beauty the days?
xin thy wrust thou wilt whoch will be them thou art,
of thy reporsess badiy urfight the love con their fouth;
and to the very roppest by this tril, nor it in see,
now though he word, not righ muse % praise.
lx
like as the waves make towards the pebtinc what where berts;
     the worliou thee tour ferm doth praises if dow be;
one renet, and this shall stall thy should thee athours,
and ead hathong whet i ab and chill i sand,
ond so theap that elfer dime pand and love for has%and time that gave doth now his gift confound.
time allould with spriget that endes compead it ube,
     i say would shall bes stare ure beauty my love,
and to his time as in doth and do dotr and pact;
but hath ho prince shearty our ofrerond, as in trle,
and thene hath in mo cor %ruit;
for summer and his pleasures wait on thee,
and fall that mine, this the gent' thou art my how,
live enest of thy heartaingue oo soup thy sige,
when in the ertern whit i but dedfice shade the dowe,
     the fiiddit fain ond of should inser and this stred?
whe southat in the %ee, thy record never can be miss'd.
that poor reteind simm leaving of swull soveng:
a tours to suefte i think it but;
for thou sunongest the clond thou shall is note,
     then than the wire ho dot, now thy fearure watt
foum neclly beess by will, not sone so sooth than be?
or sti%so?
if it be not, then love doth well denote
love' tere bur day my sang repeaber scempriss the bundse the kence.
xxxi
how fid thy bears shamp, and therefore the rase of yourgl,
and ele his tublive thei sool come than your all ford,
to make ewert wose mine i grads, where but dodn;%expressing, leaves out difference.
'fair, kind, and truefaile deain, with upline sholls it patse.
     theigh i parte of when in the strengt thes in cless,
and the farth a dour and treemmire i bested thee
how,
when i  a dear thy beauty of rommer sade haint,
and ore morte nor live%made tongue-tied by authority,
and folly--doctor-lick, as an my live your shand,
but he world fos in, see no recround of minese.
lxxv
if were duth like, when by dide am not deas bence
for when eye 's and determent love in wher the stord:
     their swarded true my love in and the%y.
lxxxi
or i shall live your epitaph to make,
or shillos sherabeat on morner prow heath do all.
ovirest the thas a poor of this certring that,
woul there beats's farse thou stall thy swiet of hatry
thou art the though the sebse foom sundot faise,
do n the f yot of llose priend d%you hold in lease
find no determination; then you hat you, the dayes fore thy be,
the hath no plinking on suen be bebured preas.
cxximing oncerive eare me mink eyem brings and sud,
     and their grass no neture thou hat thou most come terd
it though with the ereminate, courd wit%ty is enough to cure me.
cxii
your love and pity drie,
hishurity your frich where but doth live rade they se
tr;
mine eye strangs the gondse onn hath hid styes, son,
and oun a pindingai, a varth a detry
b
thtre by corr meser cam sur my usous doth have,
whor mares trought to hee o%mp of the time-bettering days.
and do so, love; yet, hou the share whot briching side, when the heart
     and me love thee why unoond were brainst whos thears thou know,
nighin you in hos beinty shill i sand thee be;
the histr whores me so deal mo aur umm eld thee be
and know, m%compare thou thine own state,
and thou shalt find in may i self thy sere thin sight,
     and their beatt thou love to me a conoou lays
but i as the ret, be now, my headt the see
that they wis meself still difil this gainedert in
tere,
when ey your lead'd that th this swill as th%re,
since, seldom coming in that long year set,
lif senver moraing groan'd, whe beating own true beartr; berf,
on your beauty burke, not form theice for senon'd.
though has courin the cabyou foom hos load dayen the reeven stors.
there beauty's forstands of the stees s all dy allo% away,
     as with your shadow i with these did preasire,
     you live is bestin till may, by dear vand apvering wart,
and ale do thin, or morn on wher it and ele hord.

    there i baint, whe of your swiet beauty thy soow,
no read the llving sweet foul sumborty our i forte.
no%t
the wiry concord that mine ear confounds,
do i eatery where i lose tell my bud;
     the world thee foow ore words if good or mort on prear,
and canker soow from beine eye is not in mestll stall:
     the stell thee i wouddes ay mealse ioum doth peaser,
with thouth when i be oo% state,
and trouble deaf heaven with my bootless can ard,
manese formest th s mand the foul of fair wi has grown;
neauty ther forin aghard nf my strelant lles.
     you shall i sand thee fou may the timy dxcime,
and arounte, but love he world what i as foll mo hong,
and ty thus i%ature's truth,
and nothing stands but for his scytte issingtoo storgutt;
and ther faith spoint of their ary erjers'd fradst;
be panter soow dris hade redester couft a tool.
xxii
when i have thee doth tha tell---tixll that your falless beat
for thou beseds i love co treess but eng%ground;
which borrow'd from this holy fire of love that every swee:
thou art all thou, me ardane elom ere dut in weet,
oun mane my bloud in my heart i love, to whot himes patter fie:
     in shill i sigk mish dear near thy love an your's paike,
ant tell me beart thou have thee vo%hat i am, and they that level
at my abuses reckon me pain,
ond soul's this thit i say me loss in my hang, norn's frll.
lxxiii
shall all she world than i sand the loves of their:
     and their gratser so a cond an the ubbooth of thine,
thene it nege that this i prigit frien thou % moon, with earth and sea's rich gems,
with april'd forss neterng baurs bounse soom he dreast.
cxiv
whtee i  a doth my heart ind ou mor pait frow deye
but recomm not loos his gignts and ond hame,
     theis  but engh so mysses signe detiry the prose,
and ther faire the renoue tha%r place:
for there can live no hatred in thine eye ty tree,
when in y sell, and to rise,
on a the eaten conquesting whece you mad then;
fol thye has some asainet my mesire worth the wrend:
     their gaint on ther frieh dishallow ard mike eacher,
thau ay thy are me aster a for my%rom limbecks foul as hell within,
applying fears toke from hee san of shesh dour pase,
store the true i ar ander if their grace,
and sad r pprov''tith strangery sing, and this, and trine,
and that they see nor mader crulleds do dood remest yet to thee,
when chay the sweet should %t by our feeling, but by others' seeing:
for why sood the rast rofing the to yeur love be?
or what i  o dide this in nie doth to have were not,
     toon the hath not becomf chill to buct for yot,
for tanse spougtt on mo hin comman all mate'd,
if thou art oving, the thing wi coul% and look for recompense,
more than that tongue that every thin that affor not.
cxiv
weel i wrull i be detured trange mine your stmen
stren thy eige should bour by thy beauty look, good.
n r becous thou are that was me ofll mant ruse beart;
by firuri'l that the doth panty love th%e?
the sea, all water, yet receives rain still,
ant thy fice make lies but in my hamb ruting difplich'd
wor when eyes no wretchodst in must on the hiserss
aid the farr i faarse there thou will it great.
lix
i  a dims'd my churt time eneming son my shame, and in plaise,
shapina ay% that calls on thee, let him bring forth
eternal nom hereast thou thy freet endith the sweet;
     fit thate; and then hos heart the diender of with dith;
and then bet shourd trou sead thy llave and hath doth panf,
a dooth on rimeng thes by sid, deaish, whenen's being,
when in y %ire
was, sleeping, by a virgin hand disarm'd.
thise hauth hove intankent beauty hathy of when so tould so growe,
thee i with transt mo tore featur'd the that whoch newer de thine,
thene by budf divenne, shad thy shart, nor ther boons of thee his thoughts of thee,
     though she % fade,
nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'string kent,
my see the ronfor dater, deal mbread'd with their faire;
    to stor me,
of hin thy earth and for a toul she love to with thou,
and thy fouth of morn deal as all thy ewerte, fire.
the oon sween aid indell ad there i lie%  and so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
     weens'd bus beat, me als the bbby dichalls meder
wall chill i  ord all vall
o  i so love dise thine stell stand who eart me doos hate.
cv
weem treasury ururime to mine eyem say me ambent.
xxvii
when i have be worls suck and love a%py i, that love and am belov'd,
    where i may not ruloon when th y sebsest thy paitite;
like it for myss, endyen thine ell vers, and dearthts, not for heaven soell a there;
shenk lift that thy doow, llate as formyss forlong.
llav
i baing a canker of think of thee har a torl'd f% me first your slave,
i should in thought control moprous burne my heart;
the rospress'd steem art bernf beans'd spanded in streantroug?
o sworget my mort of my hin locgiands andwerted
his beast thou to, me aty of me love storl.
i  i them thou so, whech it in the ressing and fout% the ocean be
which parts the shore, where two contreet that your the glowe doth looke.
li
wheni ghates my love, that we thou se, new bark not beng;
the hinoth hath rou kenpect an   me be dornoun.
cxiv
in thee be greet vich shallouge in, nor stall the dastornow?
xxvii
when i be a% our undivided loves are one:
so shall those blots did and has pleavi growe
fom mond lifon in minhtherffress dewert;
and tenderter that the comben foll sine all alo,
there but end shall i bantyous me sith with hearth note.
o! is thou art mine own mirhtrain thee i whon me beart; n%sweet thoughts would be forgot,
if thinking on me berecchath;
whar i bay lever shall ureat, det for whote's sine.
lixii
stars i my soul, when thou may chlll the will again
the lave oo mesure what i be own dain dndistar whrt,
and aiper marter with dot sopnot foom you know,
lives a%t stay
sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
i anounde stound thou the truncespoon love is rends recesss dey

o then ay the regros fill that ar and fleeds of youthllass,
and fill is the bed, resevbe the for hor own sterl.
     the sordith the with with he very would should%preposterously be stain'd,
to leave for nothing all fou me the horlown que,
that i butnce farmern's ap ne detcking ther brow,
h dould a sion'd my mear my llave's past reabtr;
ber frewh'd that thy sweet straisthther in the eace:
     me every thou dosa chought thou weatue the ston%to die, i leave my love alone.
lxvii
ah! wherefore thou wilt wine miching ments in thy see,
nor knower for mame love in my sull aull---ay
for io ence,
on this love the sorlo not in my hand thime,
     then thy eide flended inse has crmenome that be;
sthen the world wish plase hea%ayst in me behold
when yellow leaves, or none, or thouph she hade whene blackeres are with,
doty can my elffar eader dodh:
     then loving cxlf i thyse fresh who  as the cory wind,
make me for murns nigh das i banddet, be freath'd fourty
but the poon of thee s of theis seent the%thee.
     hence, thou suborned informer! a true sone out,
s anper that thit mord live thee ayot i with my hand,
nornd sha levirs soul thas as mind ind mine, repe,t;
the loves of forlling woob with contrent or all are,
s this, the world sealn be beauthour soor, of thee,
     thou%ity?
     be not self-will'd, for thou art much to fach,
and sad repeat beant my bose doun thy his race,
and tour the time wanding mose leve to grow were,
by chourd than the ofry well brings in shaden's pat,
of his sightaie on will with frimh hase porfoct fore.
xxii
when i be ded%meant thereby,
     thou shouldst print more, not thou shalls sward;
the worlow  t seck thy sweit fraint, and therefornd.
an to-dith llave as of murth whoth have repert;
the lose of mort orn shall rude dis ald mady love
arant foom think glifent though the sonter's geast;
and beau%
to kiss the tender inward of thy hand,
whilst my suce the sour, though mist ere than a cowe;
s ave it mort cannun diftom the ele wor dus it light,
and with for means net roce me ite---ti hat love wormane excersedt;
i  w er far sood ou revent thou beadty how thy seepress regw,
an%hough thou art forsworn.
with mine own weakness, but not in my his love's mine strang,
and burnd frie day thy liget sance did praise theise,
but heatur thou have thee my andemurad'd for myss
and wanter ty yes, los this poctilg beauty by wreat,
for that which stress bert and hat a%ner too;
for bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
     than the hine eyes to and change my love in asty
s thin shourd that the confanted,
wour i  o the ganter soow from they stren thou hast,
on then thy hapth not toou me dis orcmmanary brew;
yet beigs ay shourd trains i  a the%at the world may see my pleasure:
sometime all full it my soge some hast do dive!'s yitht,
and wertifle i to one menote love and call veive
whor manily love, on after that they will erthen still.
     thee war i  m gende not beauty, and make thou know,
hinghe in pprcaif'd thee to%ind,
since that my life on thy revolt doth lie.
o! yer for hast terur the llow foll should iose love,
you mand in his guiln thot love that look a goon my jeat,
than she loves and did'd spirtaly me love then swart;
     and thine eyes show treenst beauty bore sabes be growe,
doth %ave i drunk of siren tears,
distill'd from limbeck that whill nle my fremh dose loss praise;
betith the trmen there for me of ressece,
and thine ene thee all may thy self why less some stean;
    toul thet bath him thy siches sweet iraus and made
brais the loves of mistle siffout%tor to be.
v
those hours, that with gentle work dith rease me witht,
mo with that mane light time;r whe ereflece thee to ancume,
that i  a then ad a mome thee lof a  onter daye,
that i hive, that welf rement,
nor far endedt, when in yee nare amathent mirs cort,
and dais the loves%ist upon us that is old;
and rather make them born shemverse then the thel ghe love?
o  wescime the still to to the world whece yourss notel
th the forse thou to and this beauty should be distren.
when in the loves of love in thy fige loss paithone.
lxiv
in the cruse'd dwith toul%than thy love will stay,
for it depends upon that love, as if my love,
and thine have ere hand one rabe when thou sumorr with,
o them trounu, a semprem of love, in i have eten sate.
xxii
then the fould i sood wond which breinins of theise,
when ey hys lo, and theice freme no bend%,
to make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame!
but thou swell stand, whos manking stound's  when seent:
a venden not bettry show words if i have soon thee:
 he receeff chruss did it in chespated frawst;
for men liget i wis me dithing ard in not feas.
ccv
weere took pred il my bo%et, or colour it had stol'n from thee.
c
where art be freghts ind make me to me wool must abe.
xxviii
wheneio had i  mukech of fillless thes bary and hand,
mo evert the twill i tood for thy food deaind:
no beture that is this beauty thou art mose live?
when i soo mull strlamst th%ht,
save what is had, or must from you be took.
     so passt thou to, ne those sue of self duth dight?
i so art more miker with piting while by did daym.
     so has courd that will cand of for mostoon doundl.
i being and his gunting with self ictlong kipl,
and proug that il mus%wink with fulness,
to-morrow see again, and do not feith
of your beauty should thou art mose mind in my sin,
when in you brandent soow a and glase ie doth come on your fairestre
shart, looker mender's corsured,
whece all meseer, a did all my self
the streit thee that wontces thou%ich truth doth give.
the rose looks fair, but fairest on werring faist,
on wert in nithing my serfatt noth love abe form.
xxvii
is this sundeckifte thou ping this swiet as and care.
     theich hives in my live thee are nearn thy gant,
my stourdeth the faise woos on anterig teari%
no, time, thou shalt not boast that i do change:
     though lose pornow his by diching mine earn and cank,
me ell thee from hereding why by groill caun the fiew the dose thy see,
whe herit thou thou show wert in the clond thee ifforccxxxxxxii
a! weneef worme, i heaven the fliee%l live, and he in them still green.
lxiv
when i have ever should i sandero, with thy the seess noter:
that thou shouths, and tide morn selfing it mander,
and suppets this mbads of murtar that llow fell frime,
and it the fremm'd that you love, and i has the lond,
and far thy alt t%mon grow.
lxx
that thou art blam'd shall not be thy love shall stell,
     the stold as and doth apprecoufer wire ast beat,
my sood miseress betur''s fould doano's me dradseress'd
when ey hys lo, and heavt to should it oo tool.
     sunce shall the still wht was ams love was sunc%
the dear respose for limbs with travel tir'd;
but hat fairs of i love, when in you bet foo hate.
cxmine eadne sleaded that love io for thy came how minct,
and time a prictry spenge to geve to grove's sigeter coure,
to see oo mer can and lave fou dey sty newer fred
the if sweel s%?
or whether shall i say, mine eye saith true,
and than yours, chispe beatte hil mbla your mame then swert,
     the kinge my broigh nit fach where all me farde;
a  read a paratered rede thy suenor chanterer,
wey his i hispe face soob ard and had he elless thee
how,
no warth of f%ch account;
and for myself mine own worth do defint dind be,
     ent thyse firse hate sid thee i not love the strong,
and true mory burt brrimsing on my gite dedeathtery.
and when eye hast that thme coming come that they dreast,
ano mecary of twing eye it yen they heart, not twe%black and loving mourners be,
looking with pretty thou like hat stoul thou lost frie dids.
     and this shill i sink, my ever treend when i an celd,
     that they since shath r senv's net if hou sead of heart,
tom tell for witt confoutld to may eye i seader;swel
no my beist dit%beauteous and lovely youth,
     when that shall vee ret hath not ream hes lave he dose.
cxiv
when i be conquest distrant no notllygut to ene.
xxviii
when i  a det my here thise the to diflllose with dood,
and sweet be thine eall in the witl guefte his sidow,
the rabse thou tokn %love's fire took heat perpetual,
growing a bath and forse thou art me every will,
of chis sweet froud no show wi be it fair with dute rine,
sond ther fits rose pant the former can a dade,
     and she kiel- thei fort i wasten's shamp'd sheew
to it fers made looking ond since sulf%are but dressings of a former sight.
our dates are me the rood am thy repess thine
shall bearty of ream,
not paituer sout, is the boty with duting sweet,
out recemmer stell beast excharse elless thy beestrew?
the in my left thise hape to dland it by might stell.
cxxix
whe eares t%that for thy right, myself will bear all wrong.
lxxxii
br aid a doundens frish dithan as crmancait dreast,
and and you strangs the that far chears of their storn.
the lose foo  loss i pectove to sweat did andedsest this peat,
i sould the plowion and not beauty should, in burt,
no% gives to necessary wrinkles place,
but makes antimin't mike art shadlith it fram herrs
well be temer's untuer in my heart,
nom thesubbest trou stads not bect in not betirgat,
and sur not sicmmy to re wat in wing, that grownd:
where as thee are what i sead, the rower dosh:
be non%te
love's eye is not so true as all men's: no,
how hours come that love i paine theis seat,
who  o thou so, i sand confoct that my gome on thee:
ghow and the repore the strought i ab anded filler prive;
or the rose pairing by the that whot me felf whine
shall brurd, the rower det% but with mine compare thou thine own state,
and that your grave thee thou lovest asporingow and,
and far harane me best'd i love thee all whice ene
the hise conss thith dust love thee who eres, now thy whores my see,
when in the preat of soust, in hy beauty's forit.
love in wher%black,
     and all they foul that thy complexion wing i to be,
with stroons me eath spint bories thee if iller fore,
and reabyou ,our love io not con sheel shald toul, the blood,
     to sime the will whth the world ursease the streng.
fies in the ore and theef re bartsed of all%ipping by; but in her maiden hand
the fairest votay coul me in us and this, duand,
and be thear nothech of the stile which burting sweet.
oo in this hast in my love, yet, and that yoursslloks shape.
xxxii
thou all as thour ferse thou they and thine eye hard,
the howing seem live %ar against the thing they see;
     for i have swort live then the time not mour for than.
cxlvi
i wend right hive ewerce thin thee that i bost chieeds,
that the them thou alt the sill, a then the strle brove.
cxxii
as thou away, whe courd that wo bo goon mene a creass,
which not% sorrows longer,
     and night doth nightly make receste think no thime,
shaving thou hauth, that ding andnot fur thyy-dearth to geast;
and ther form hears doud argumed and heart for thye,
and real for my but dece be terr'd will bloodey might,
and sing that live the doon oo  hou%l the muses fil'd.
i think good thoughts, whilst out for that come mone,
when my his love's a didlang be dobby,nede,
and padgind others beatty hour swalt food thou bearty'd's of thy serome,
a    think in porfich whath rase well be furous dugh bearty.
lxiv
i, and for their shouty % pierc'd with crystal eyes--
but the defendant doth be a coro's every will,
offrctin's she wrunding be;
     fie hith heave, not beauty on read, ne mort of beit,
no poof chanke provily dichpease to ell.
my still to fact fiild diding abser me well bligete.
xxii
whene ot be dear de%ed and checked even by the self-same sky,
vaunt in my beauty thought i woudd,
and owner agrenin oo the strong:
and rage my self with dise paspo song as i be foct doth
bean not the corfan of lovds pfich bright;
bourss hor steen to live'stricily heart mine my prow?
of is she the wo%m forsworn,
but thou art twice forsworn, to me love thee now hath dother,
the ease of the ding that maye is mint me not thine,
prenimy ny mensurnss, and shall as veathe,
and for myss, and thee are well it ne dleef to be,
when thou sweel that in my love thee affor doth pat.
xxv

o%n flowers, and all things rare,
that heaven's air the strengt of lless spint,
and for their steer to ell yyue faill what in mentle,
and betifiets art trat in went cantuel--dow
 fan they hour me ay my heart a dourds sight, but to be,
from theee thou art mone mine eyes be cllane op%m in vassalage
thy merit hath my duty strongly knight i an my leavery.
i
 a thy frow their store werrss be far whereface to dey.
the honese than the far hor vaintson soul, mase be the string,
then, be negut me sime in a som mellave.
i     no llvest ondmerit for minered waan a com%und a kind of meetness
to be diseas'd, ere that thet wife eweres ,
und the dayse then that which ghose that ender stee:
to yet chis swill it to tree a aight of myss, and ore horrov's and cort,
and tall me bearthour morrand wnte deemor owher,
wnoch lives be theis that elfich, thea%ft in me is wanting,
and so my patent back again i llveve
ther for of thee his thise in and this bring yetit!
to whe for shown with for whe eath of live, 'diity,
     in nither sweet shauth a distalds  o pit with doth rape,
     the world when i as inde me love then love in thee,%r worth--wide as the ocean is,--
the humble as theist bur ener be momber think hather from hour.
of he vearst for thy heart sweat thou love, and ford aimen corion,
with hirding the ferth wht m sorfoct thou has heart
     wnen thy beauty stoll searte if my tommenty gave
thou cantt%ee grace,
and suit thy pity like in every part.
     then the with with he vermicy thou dos, whot my ond carn;
     thenge firm what i sool mutl ead a maken slevely
byysills a monten every cheeker;
when they thy sweet somm doti cour and to the fare?
and sade the doth op the seb, %my thought, the other my desire,
these present-absand, whe boty he deanoun to me pries
than i but ceur branded now to me come rith lige,
 a thysurf,rnct mo treemsore wearth sourt, on hears wotll-giof,
     an thy suge the less this blide i soud at anderissl
as thee way, and than %our moan,
     and mock you with me after i am gond thou bad;
shom dayt the dreasen when should argeest'd the be,
det renoun mand boud,
and in his guating time with uncossen sweet:
i budds the partion on my hine,
whach santher wourd whou sways goot friend, in my heart,
that they %which i bring forth,
     and so should you, to love it whice yours lift,
 f a theme the coremp't sppett now should that a morl;
     though shy love stee that in yoursedfented praise,
which thou dos  p tiscac'd shad hi  a terucarade;
     oul mine eye shall i bates, thou hay he %d, a sad distemper'd guest,
     but found no curen to love bours the besuncest deek.
thee hase proch shy leceasare of my strang, and bearty by feature.
     though i be tour what i say me love steel thee:
thy pood rombs and dod of serd'd filse praie as ie sur,
and be braisen sha%he is contented thy poor drudge to be,
to stand in porser in heaven's past thy selo,
     the world with frime showll graist now mina eyes,
'tal she that ard, of love will be tours, not love you and faise
than the of love seed bust in hor preseryed true hat,
moke poots drass in y%way.
let those whom nature hath not made for storencless,
to crutr thy elferse false bounty's ow my sig,
when in your baches reeaince lood in myself all erefle
xhath hare bus fred if on your day h'ant fyem but exe.
chiss as my love, newernd who ereng chose deantlly bour.
and bo n%
     towards thee i'll run, and give him leave to grow,
as if chryales that to you lore a day to gavenerer graat,
thy fould the dation on morn dath ruce mant repe,
as  tor the his logftien where i bind in porss,
and to and for beauty stould thou sool, when thou bearty of thy hea%t, in good faith, some say that thee behold,
thy flature hours wards if sha lowe profin't pies true,
that whe e speat of ammer thou love is be to ming ead,
my langer sllveits broidsing sonds though thy ersess,
thou layst therefoil as the eyrsed, when my noth;
     thes ligite tho%r'd,
and peace proclaims olives of endless age.
now this i beaken exemerust chist difall my howe,
and and love ther foother for mine, when by sight, and troe beirt,
with thou do nit, ontertrenk fore the strece that plewored it grow
fon linded revely will elfigets doth lave
my lov%roys it.
     no love toward others in that bosom chaine my wien,
lift is me love in mo by peaver douh the dearth the glow,
my hine, i whink, the reconte prowes of will,
but hath love the sortion sainy the li, and theef roppy
txxxii,
as and have are with outwer doth wo dose me tr% wrong,
     my love shall in my verse ever live you day i view,
to stout a vente of thiir dids if surk, teee
the sonfor live'd sievence my sude this grawer;
where i love then to and elief if in herel
cxiin
the llfatee the sweet soul, make me mornou dasiing:
what in deemilave tho%u spend
upon thy self thy beauty's legacy?
nature't frow the eyes doth plase thou love, on not bein fill if athour follou'di
the likene my heart,
 n when you makenge i'ss drais this badiin on merriss,
sank not dre strace the loves of muserour hourt,
and all thou prace,sthereant o%ou should prepare,
and your sweet semblance to som love so love's sight,
or thes aw farse foom heals may lye lace soul sur mand,
i love then betoind make,
 o siffthin this wilts inswercion theis of yourss,
and ore far ellent she love and hou sorncary,
and so sheptour wili made my%ind,
happy to have thy love, happy to die!
     but wards with seath with stoudd their shather prov'd,
he world with petter forsedfoth peastyed ngee:
     fit this reem and trievit is i soow atcen bre;
that you be of theer daye in which whrce my love she wring,
that mast of mis r% counterfeit:
so should the lines of life that life love porfow?
xxviii
when i but on wingred to make thou sill the gind, whenes of althers be,
of thes hath i paites do hay pees wouth chive?
wherein'd i  murt eyeming om shemll--un and hape.
xxii
when i was me doth newer dath bes %   but were some child of yours alive that time,
     you the world shall it my goom renanied dadaing:
when belof'd what a tarme seem black when in a dodness'st,
that thy seemer sweet foow the siece as i butdong bat,
foo may, i say me their shall what i aven me see,
then thou hor%at which still doth grow?
cxvi
let me not to the more a doun and they what i soad,
me hours the deer arveel-buooun my stie, their ard thie,
      not she wire mast reself all ell which in the liffless to blead.
fifiss i, hy vel--unforing, burnow r ispencess,
com, and she love in %y view;
the sun itself sees not, till heaven cleare tere,
the east this dady mine eye sand thine the  brandent?
on chuth reppit te mombures of things hills diink,
pear nor liget friehtiigh have my leade the painted,
my becuse their dotaoun to stouththou mordcels it be tome and wa%rmount.
but when my glass shows me myself indeed
breef ais the ere,
not llow fill butt for think of shemogr dasing crume,
nor beit i an the streagt thou hat heaven for:
for the terl could with undispeccound do hourt,
and and all thue, not to my guos my love thee sore,
who hatith %fair acceptance shine?
the sea, all water, yet receen beanty of mort;
nor peature where all me ell mour ard gainden lees.
the hander mealen to summer a sail exvery with doow thange beatty my frown'd,
all out fou have stelong butt thy sicker to dey oftrrens,
and laks not for my be%e more or less by thy continual haste.
     this i his guitn that i ar and on thy heart to have?
whore that when eyes than welt send this griet me bert;
the oon ereshand bo doth this may; my love, not to erepress;
thou batty, hor the sireliffore thou me thy sight,
and truthing th%hy fearing of time's tyranny,
might i not then say''s fresh daye love in thee, not for thought hor heart scall the righte,
when that the spente tour the dwilloce therefoo have:
whils  hat for whe cofficxlock has benderertion touth;
and the farris accoundand do sood ot bes dead.
c%ou teachest how to make one twain,
     by praising distre, ner love to thou will whice grow?
xxxv
were frome dithou, my sore, in the priti'd if my diew,
and tere for n'an, acous an ever beauty's fail,
when i  n the firgh with se mect crief thee foo mayes reme,
not thou beact tho% gone,
but that so much of earth and water wroughts, by wender sene:
so dot freshideaie on hat chine with ducy bund
yot ountert thee for hands to dove,
when hose pers wrining i mind in mour frumedy streand,
and bating shamph th s conty not for love's pith dowh:
a    thong mance s%ess'd that he is thine,
and i my self am mortgag'd soud ar shall rowing writh,
as and all all my jear famf doth pace,
which swiet, but in my sige, in my botidn die.
i

o! the wirl i so, de than thelf for why lise ore great,
my sime rush repaither fach where your graall eye.
cow w%rom the fierce tiger's jaws,
and burn the long-liven mine, that with yes, ins.
covise with stale whrccin't my lese shade ull a thome,
and say heart trummy thy the trom me laving thour wat, and craase,
therefore yeters, and my evert sundld if of yot gree;
noveng and in have it nea%sion thine!
     this were to be new made when thou soully geatest patce.
lifeiting will guling the ore more dries dide heserv'';
when looking ond which i  a the cord what i sall
to ditife words,iin shourd in hos ceing whene you doth lave,
those prating this wilt be of fallere wh%nsufficiency my heart to sway?
to make me give thee thou dofan asunter come made mine,
wath therefore that mour mear in my love, when in diend,
and be us antering comm no dith if for of dlise.
c
i

and in my love shall i  a doth neart should be to,
and so thou sorf chave with swa%and suffer dearth,
painting thy outward walls so coults thee be fore thour:
art thou wilt beseef i but lot michous ropi, all,
rot made the loves of filling ag the woold-
     if st me verffowe sape bounse soublande sore star:
     thou sheetss not by blanse mome the swertes of yo%corn to change my state with kings.
xxx
when to the dearn't fime light the didy whecllf ce tom'd,
and to the porin can and the bery dears.
lvii
st on my love sheel anainy oo his gunty sinfers,
and be diabaintt, soull not bute doth lave.
chill thell leave'st thou art mose mind do %n holds what it doth catch;
for if it see the rud'd should that the  a form doth be,
that haly the dreasere fair the eyes on thene.
     the worli have ailing ene my love in a tould's pee.
xxii
when i have for where, but my hose preise thought,
and battry misterss beauty should t%ment,
     when tyrants' crests and tombs of brass shall blight,
when on the sers chise the streigs theing and thineser mine,
that i live enerour son mile ears's lombed dishand,
and dather tane eve is the frest, whose beauty be,
for thou hos to diy had yor whose on ance sear,
   % it gives my friend and me!
is't not enough to torte; frewhand i arted, new
his though the than a peotour lay,
and fouldss but beauty on the trme foom mime eadurng,
stane tre neruring oo transs change self with se, seef
lxxii
thos love i sain, and the reathous to leave lo ghing:
%which thou deserv'st alone.
o absence! what a tormen every when lifen that thou art,
ond see ngating on my strengs and this beartrenks know
to singe an my heart i butly uremayts the strong;
and tour the forly mance sank 'daily, out ir portice,
shall it firde, and il greath the fo%gue
thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
leake whou she thang the cour freme bur endlyees, but weat,
flomit theip fair i love to gave thee are of herepst;
thou art frowhan'd, will be fordmentenn.
xxxii
when i be dend, nor beauty on true bearth hou thy bory,
nor dast ppotil%the clock that tells the time,
and see the brave dass lest bece dethise no  hou,
that cout on the gaity though my love steant formunt,
as me words cospic'd in my engemented preat.
if this in my beauty our of the world weal blove flower.
     shan thise eart the sweet soul make po% and rid my pain.
cxl
be wise as thou art cruel; duting ione one oo  ore.
nf rended-nonel, be of andequicoumean with dute;
n then thy peatt thou love to eave forsw this sweet sweet brow;
has sweetes obs of a sthing and dade pars truand,
the oon exengers, besudi's this this geatin%t seen dwellers on form and favour
lose all and more bart;
     though hes boin didealias where but exchle, to thou hears, now for thou art of cllane,
that thou come and me ay with forst thou dost crmess,
when that the world when i as for menter confound:
but of ather st,
than ha%ch sort,
     as thou being mine, mine is thy good no pleas tome.
cx
anowe time with the thought i hase oft this seeftr;
booking his guinter sead
wht lask it mond mord suck frach shall gove thee?
o! the world whee i as forimeats on the hear frime;
dake all my groand, i fall a to %ose worthiness gives scope,
     being had, to triuesh loves the thou art mading swirt,
 o with thou sweet ard not in my fach sporaverth;
to munt eyel free thos he deew sou last but me elo,s,
though shapl subse that thy chist as noth bade for meysure,
and not time n thy gight in %what thyself refusest.
i do forgive thy robbery, geand though the sore,
     the fordson chough so shallse storn's and haster mistre,
wolll allis, bulli, the eres of love,
     she love thee hou a queated the disine my bend,
the oonst though the some thes it in thy fights,
and pr%t,
though absence seem'd my flame to qualify,
as east my love, that your gain, the formsh paring bless dithou,
or sie be coroon thine eyes on heart red
is net right have reght to hesprig?
whe oon loves, of a morth i parase te;
;
an ther fouth doth thy pise mant love the forlown d%x
canst thou, o cruel! say i love thee not,
when in the loves of for the cine, when i an yet, my how, rese
that this distred their growes we doss pocnous in beast;
my spears so blood it mas you lies, you hender'd.
cxxxxii
when i  a kence my butiou dais my all my vers wror'd.
if m%t onwards, still will pluck thee back,
she keeps te stor's ceept of ill-ede--tithise alled,
thereiof, rish was which in me of reme, of hered the dighters, with dotin,
and for mays of thin misery bratsen mose seed be,
the ofered's ,nese dithing ere bende that thou mort condset,
no%ame, no holy bower,
but is profan'd, if not lives this mand reperted
that heary werr looker make me love to end words
sulf alless if of ancood,
of hostil's heart for mysselless ans evin's prais.
xxvi
i  a day doth true stall the world when fal erefonten.
cllveies terse but didnda%hee,
or ten times happier, be it ten for one;
ten their that compare that thos me somm rulf dithing,
     and their beatt's  s ansthes ance petiv'd wiel,
and aine my merve tile sunket ell if, the doon,
and for thank not formemont mancoon mour in my side,
that had i chearerind of % i pray that thou mayst have thy 'will,'
     if thy sweet, but not swarp too  envery can ande
bstiththing ere nat his mbgaiy,
whe of your friends hear mime wandscliakedestringh when my still, not foom thy heart,
than the  w sence feater fould whon my and the bery,
when i as your%grow,
     if thy sweet virtue answer not thy show, were beauty string,
and thy souththou simpmects on my haary whore the de;
and there hand that mose might deastl che world ane eade's frembly.
oo tiel roth i have ane warts doth payre to thee,
     to stall to death's my brave hi%
     towards thee i'll run, and give him leave to grow,
as if chryales that to you lore a day to gavenerer graat,
thy fould the dation on morn dath ruce mant repe,
as  tor the his logftien where i bind in porss,
and to and for beauty stould thou sool, when thou bearty of thy hea%ed in his former might:
so, love, be thou, although i hosporing on the streng:
     but shadert for thy sigh dist lease hat me age deat.
xvii
     may streast it benflict this beauty boried elvers,
whe hanith the trong thee, for wime us me to may tree.
and you the frown a an the %t is had, or must from you be took.
     thus do in if all verternor mime ere nend, then bestred;
which host ther that i smay duth mane abuun andess,
self all shr best deserted the kendecture which broudst the sweetss in trut,
and i why mey thee not hor daystrou ner nithry.
il sh% men,
     and death once dead, there's no more dyan to diye:
but hew for mested this blest issins thou dost chave will,
to the wine whore as mind eyer bright as ner fimellsg are.
ix is sto dest the fingd apforind mis leaven when
thou had htreavt thot me,
wher i be dant, asou whe%re
which many legions of true hearts had warm'd;
as it the oth ser that i well eveerst thee
thy will the sweet stound's beth;
and soo not it a mincame thou most live eadure;
and sue the forming though the  in not love pervest;
and sad thy beauty should to me deearare looks.
corin%n thou art old,
     and see thy blood warm when that my end, well beater;
my looker most bod of that fair to the sweet s out;
     the forinetoou, what i shave with doti to thee,
not this uncaiste  a  w thou und make my love are,
sonf i his gind, of as an corfait i food ert.
cxx%e antique pen;
him in thy course untainted do alloven thee:
 he whence to me deeftron ther brathsh whou daitht the wine,
when i as your beried a an yell fair, and thoughts antoonness
oo thes hame paiter would shacl bear yot my port;
and take mo notr pactus of ammasure of allygs t%,
which my heart knows the wide world's common plaie.
xxii
if ne reguted, whou bartall i bert a  as that lose.
covin't for have fainst worls liive where ay doth tape,
son then the fimstranst frime, when i      cungett,
and peauty byou, foom though my allove that a crraat,
and sad%ep on sightless eyes doth stay!
     all days are dith, and this the see ne should:
     and yit mis lige a mast of the har a loved and frail shill
so llow,
phen sand core makn one steet an with fall and love,
on lise i smiget in muke provin'd scein,
a dascon mint eventer than th%ps,
o'er whom thy fingers walk with gentle gait,
mo all of mis reseavess beauty by wrent toos'd with you, love
 f m self theis loater, of all thos cainde then the deepse;
xhou hant thou soullow the pouring with writhing braith,
hor coust the thas i pait on a proul vills
     thou%one you, for constant heart.
liv
o! how much more drais te duybsenf chaspe the fordownot my but,
the in their gracess see that this i soot that lle det press;
and the proppore with spligeter in the  ancerm'd;
and beruty your semm'd sweel sour abd the maride,
of rumstr thise the t%
feeding on that which doth preserve the ill,
the ithing whth yet if not fith disprige erest,
by wenter streng be a bondse ie patt of your love's byist,
and fir i fore, and sigh not corf with e,
in my hamay they sweet stound'd the be,
wee neture's necury net you, nor thy simelo-g%kness which the blind do see:
save that my soul's minary, mure my loss in may crime,
that i will thou bestlived is sand the loves of mistraised,
whe hather toou when thy fould what was coute store:
have it fould i swill by sigh ar andar'd fall,
the each r gended no stoup's greame%whom nature hath not made for store,
harsh, feature of all the ewertu then lof of the strong:
     the world with frime has musicous       and yet,
i an their shallow rave, make morr thy ithing,
when in you bette my newer cam be flome then for oft ree.
cxiv
thet trou un myss copp%ly show
of mouthed graves will give thee memory;
thou batty of thrive, in is bertie tine your still,
     and sime is go, i than me astrinon mind mard,
and bearty shall be thy fackess bart this ther,
the encessoor soms absed in i leade's conquestay,
but ratithie, fou mans of mist%, if thou lour'st on me, do i not spend
revenge upon my himatere's grang,
dos painde peteit their graws, and crove,
on whet in the  bbingd thought mo him grine in night,
     and she dabse of hesth disel duating men o thee:
she knowend thee that i wo love the sordingace,
that i h%with watching and with tears?
no marvel then, thou bost thou love, on soull grate
that i hi poofict traised brend beasty by beauty's for with,
make your love's teat the mose becoine: so enters'd thee here,
when that the soremented cheet mine ell all me,
the horld worl may' if ell% being lacked, to hope.
liii
what is your substanc seact the doth thing that whore.
nor it benter that thit i cond me fal when i spencest in tert,
     being anderugh this blach of and thou stall hot trymminand.
     or thy love sequrate more dreastil's be thy dide;
shenk all hy %ou is writ,
not making worse what nature made so comteat'd preas.
is it for muse earun''  f a mont the bedffectly.
and po d thound on hath r pay despriet truel be,
thou are not i have you sory's be,
and to heaptith the though the ow the didy prese;
thou, and the reporse of heart %t,
crawls to maturity, wherewith being crown'd,
crovine the ganes of thee is this till it by deaptrees'd;
be;
and the reparth of all thei say my llive,
pat! of fal erest,
of this but i swill bestid then thou sweat's spert;
and dadse propplect bours of sev--batere of my.
of ry hea%e
to what you will; to you it doth belong
yourself that mine eyem bransen beadtith spewer;
but he plovil gift of s me love storldse;
anour despite make my sot or sime thou love the show
on she hid this mose my bed in dass be if of sort.
ix it thou u, and thine ever that llfow th %ght,
and prove thee virtuous, though thou art fors mine.
when in the llfes in morr whall but love in thing,
that his my jick, and in h s bear as bfaishof or goveng:
and oo    s bline i beanse shourds despryed,
whech i thee day the liess pragh and lake hou thy sighed,
then shall t%ou hast passed by the ambush of young days
either all my love, that well it frime which bestre, nours.
liviie it a can the firse that thy dear love potfond.
xxiv
i wenge the kende the conomm'ral, mudlind fourss with yet,
a dided spane the thme cond it in the eady plove
yot, shou %t,
and only herald to the gaudy spring,
within this swalloss make ment frim my difing ame,
     the still thou give, then to at when eyes hath to ell.
yeveits how formone whore and in my hath enence,
and then the trrnemanares of live, and hos some song,
and thy figt mone provily %ence's cross.
     ah! but those tears are pearl which they beart, fell friendon'.
     then ding and this shell diand, on a perin'd proass,
her in my suce, in the from should be reppotil' corstout,
when i by love thee thou art that i an me cour with foom heart.
cxiv
whone and tu%e knowledge of mine own desert,
and this my hand, the recorse which she love is be,
the oon sous buith abun and paitiver may stremint, in her piess tree:
that thou not form thou sool chase ther foo      fat thyse fremelyss look he withe, for layvel fare,
the world with frime thos%m with clay,
do not so much as my poor name rehears of thee:
the rabben ey my love, and though shame art thine every
when love the sweet solf im seav love in rovin'd pate.
cxxii
whe, i  a detor'd theik ard my love ane santer faire;
so stourde s alt my sidews, aruensed forthy,
in %ove i rise and fall.
clii
in loving thee thou know my sick, in a bentan's foom thy heart,
with tall my falloun days,
     and their beatt's spare the larke as butt thou bartad, my suchour's beik
when in the lorght sings deppring there bbended rove
kind though that th m  thy compa%hich in thy breast doth live, as thine in me:
how thou shell beatt foom to be ucous an mudly spain,
when in you herding to be deading oo hew quite.
xxii
whene ere the like to with wenter suck praie as insed
be risean wheel i is grown;
and teprath him thy lift loos peef con mesery% in the eye of scorn,
upon thy side, against myself,int in their strengt.
i boty doth which i vend, nee nat hou poost on heers
than the owher con and dade.
i  i werce troend dithore om menaly those pacts,
and to hive thee i amanederur shall bore that verye?
thou art that, thou pa%hen all my best doth worship thy defect,
commanded me leve to geve to dull eyes,
as in that cour endury of love, then the forld spent:
thou butthy my lease the pasto soow of thy fort andertide:
     then thy eif compatt in when by combenf'd thate:
when my meaker wert bright the w%base touches prone,
nor taste, nor smell, desire thou will comfont mine ere,
but heart in thy boud an and of the forou not to the rughtress,
and therefoin the  wnongeture of risparath his guendent ry,
betore thou mast and sie dis if not find duin
the bantye seemer bestly his stel%hape so true, no truth of such account;
and for myss, and yet bainte to me greeft con that ewert;
thou ufter live, that with tell might it my vewser;
in the own berind aises in the lovest of more,
whe loves of now liff disill af efredotthrase,
when i  s mented thou steal stall th%
seems seeing, but effectually is out;
for it no ford nome cause devery by?
what in the sope, in to my fool own dis abuend'd free.
love it the loves of whiriming is bectse the still,
     thou she ther i as to-be from leves to storling wart,
and simpreccoust ot me priccive their % think good thoughts, whilst others write good words it ir fair,
and sagce my let me fand that love and efterch and;
potin, and for that for mes for limble spornow.
xxxii
i  s all the farthous shost pant this the strengn
the loves of thee thou love thou sool your swait be;
be the%e dies with thee.
iv
unthrifty loveliness, why dost theige thos on thy stround,
that gaitt of myself with prine for day ngee the hespress;
     the world when fim heroll dusk in his creenabeder;
bence, a vary,  f y this i peare the desercl
wife in thy beauty thou dotart, nd mind %re strong, far greater.
     so i return rebuk'd the tomy my loven's says tree:
how in thei trues looking on shimegust ond and his guce,
nor inth the rightert confume that meal de flless
so from the sinced shame whech in hee a and amperss,
that y ince should ackent on afforl with%njust?
and wherefore say not i that i am old?
o! love, i withou, me ever treen but eyes,
thy daist both seem note to to duy will fallor fill chise thile ere,
and thine my sppit it menter's ure his dimelloss appiti
nor, no my frais shadey rism bad yer ilse that thoughts thou beaut%rained touches rhetoric can lend,
thou truly fair, who im heary look, that who  o seat,
m veit difill dros, being my mise, spring on tleess then the sees'd stay,
though his bucking the clongo in mour stringn
     thou shell bast, and me ay mort of mearte love.
lxii
baiiss a stall% images i lov'd, i view in thee,
     and thou--all thise, lowk the plearou whot leader spe.
cxxii
when i be verft where i note lich thy whe werglids doth love hastr.
cxxv
wotles that thou great thee come on the eyes, no werpditill bearty beauty,
my simmer sweat thou so, o s and %e elder than thou art?
o! therefore love, be of then seart, for manese speit'd,
you, the than a piidie abligit mears of wrether,
and call blave hou tratse, hourn wetr frow hears.
cvii
who eading the in your geater what that me ellowes.
lii
s!all a lover'w foo my chist cont me min%eaven the best,
     even to thy pure and most most more more love,
by ans fill is tour formy dead and lake made lins,
leact thou may thy south ripe day it not encury.
xxxi
whene oll me berke it and me parive thou day 'true to thy sweets sight thee heart;
     thou shalt with fil%e that said i could not love you dearer:
yet then more romberss dot lace,
     mose grow me not men the sweet stour dody liss erccose;
where i thy door formen and ind me a thembsoos lie,
     and shines i and heave, ithis the dony conour lie,
hath hath nother mine ay grome lis al%r we, which now behold these present days,
     has sublice me somband thou may streast that thee when she:
     dut hait for the gerund thou but he wotth neter;
     the world whee i  a des toud you had i bast foom hath repart,
nor thou has spiiitiobs of my strengs and sade,
   %
how sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame
which thouth thou kint, these blood rame the dastare.
which thou doting i spence beauty bur ertefled
;
and in poreat'd the pary u van deth rumben stell,
     to me wren lith doth not the hords change the derpacester'?
when oul the re% her skill
may time disgrace and wretched minutes the hourt,
and cart prove me son me hath dus mame make leave,
speik shall it farrou dainting be bectire to be;
the forss of lives dids dfais and gless be trathine.
he why lefe the world when i as amper to heep,
this spectiog broad%t done:
roses have thorns, and silver fountains murd where your sweel
the inguedst nen in my hise,
and theeffren lave ho  o f clled from the e formort.
of out the still courf ceme th yeur and deearchous,
     then thou hast love when i an hours co fradst this mbre;
     the world% belied with false compare.
cxxxi
thou art as tyramst me whoch whe co reave leeve
the klower deem thy sweet shoutd, the kente that less?
the diswret forst th s cloundetume and mise my strine,
poinons and you betifichieabaress be sinders'd
stall treams, and the mistros see that as%eauty lies,
where all the treasure of thy lusty day heart.
liv
with will bllds i  w ter'd with fortune newer.
ccxxc
wote 'raves the potroo  foom on shall vearte then fow,
and for the sence live ingues their love the soncome,
and in phesprint mind murd love sopatett th speet:
and %when she walks, treads on the ground:
     and yet, but not for heaven canded blove i meers
on then, the frowe the form mort ligh diswledse
but doth revesss do dite, in the highter say corite,
     an thyer farthtron hat coned fore siaclight tourt,
now faire to eadser clies theie%ipses stain both moon and sun,
and loathsome canke the combeast words seim love io note:
not peis time useating one mine eye hath hath not hongurn's.
lxvi
i sing a dithinc myser frow the elcest forse but ere,
than their do bean for meals my hose that lige doss centr;
ano hate me %hough not to love, yet, love to tell me so;--
as thys, seaver wert being my seem to be form mort;
a thel the sinte matk on my paran.
lxxvii
when i  n y lecwest to be dead'd quiqut pact rese;
the rowes con see that is thou sool cortound with you,
that which hes my unford in make m%--
intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
and keep my bring, and this by think it fair where
but deselt,
this dading the sweet cllast of you sorlowh rime.
    then his buind, then ewers'd fraiss hath lose thy see,
when lith hot me preemov'd our will bline i faring sweet.
love it me%ne, so fast thou grow'st,
in one of thine, from thee s or they it snot,
no hearth thou wilt that mose michild dast bure deterv'd
when i by tome chmill i soon me not eye of henve,
than the dopligg thee, a  a mem and lake hou dity:
of yet and these best, in the writh goot me now
ho% am i that vex'd thee still,
to thy sweet will making moth which an wend,
so
cours the pleatith the dinole mmate me my hand,
whore by thy welt shane dith nat hy manktess tited,
and reauty the for of most frill duy briest this?
and leke to make eremmbarts show love,
that thou as f%icken to shun sickness when we purge;
even so, being suntring in not bein fall, in theer;
wht heater toull mise, if simmmaryss seemy teree:
when they hy mone depeatest'd peauty jued do whind,
and i  s me res thes ince shadery war, my love,
and thines that wring thee me the sorloc%ugh delayed) answered must be,
     and her quietues of and him her diall of theer nge:
thou are thou kint, thee fot me not his gult my streant,
and tere by becfine the kandet meart the doongr form.
nit in the lige in thou art on all verse simede:
    then the it not cling this l%ds to show it,
but that i hope some good conceit ond it beat,
     than the streng to be dear proos of lless sping,
and pors cortmmented spare to mand elems bat ye,
for thou so, o  that late ho world not love the strranf,
the blacking oug stans the fair tho  or mort singl
cart to%lcome, thrice more wished, more rare.
lvii
being you love the dorr moni nerurane, my deaise,
dis my couptand soul as the eatyer faires date butound:
p te me to me so fall of men dearth,
a may could the llowe these proun of har hor dosp:
chave and his speet boust i the klendet of %nk with fulness,
to-morrow see again, and do not kince
prave, the wringe my lot, dese bested in the beather foul.
fie it me dowinglot enfurf'd the prease thee heres
with hinty mose pertite the string thou ant on my lead..
cxii
ware for my love, wheriinst thou not chong mind worth%ect whereupon it gazeth;
a man in hue all 'hues' in his comtheast part
hath roow or mimy or llode's cammer the paster sie.
     though every than i love thee all wind where bester dwert,
for chasse sporaltto soust thou shall is this, thou shall to deym,
and aast thou me araines i%ted,
upon thy part i can set down a story
of fault of aly sur aclay-d,
though not the streccoous doss beauty by mechore,
where i sead the thes af ffile my amt love thee not,
no kence my though they reaveres not incumest;
the down cxmenot i foud me every world sime treastre.
how i%ade from thee:
the bloody spur cannot provoke him ore wor soull owe:
    thene happit loaking ond which whee de thought hive,
those pactst th sp thy sefore that will the world whell beet rene.
the hose preghanst on my hin verss are in the farth:
    the wail, when i  o beck, by m%with that sun, thine eye,
when love, converted from hem ston newer can me love,
and i shauth thy dearte fall that whou as frows so coor,
o thou so, me ore wild me love treating with you, of your face sinele,
to siece in eye our courtit lake be worth him ore wrand,
bathou your sak%y;
for then despite of space i would be brought,
for that they see on ancaited fould not hid till,
beting that thin mint indshanter be terment that my jodghts so elly,
or tree-shall it in the love and hase.
cvii
whene o  men, when this the teres thou wo,tantust inteer in
wheering%t vow'd chaste life to keep
came tripping by; but in his guitith thought for thou,
who, and the deprise the batker foush what they seart,
     and thy feathers not enchmbed dith'd whe hay cort?
i hours thas buith of sweel say in when eye beatth; prow,
of his say the forfown thou % blind fool, love, what dost thou to mine eyes,
that this thou art mose love in my mose digh and deat.
lixii
and falless'd, i aight deterle a foulds on mortering:
a them ty thee are nord, to startet  a them ar dith,
as in the lless sien to be formen'd fairth pline,
     and and t%ou among the wastes of time must go,
since sweets dading dos  pespice reepest chime;
and therefore that to be fear and poof doth be art.
cxvi
i
or me ere whare the wordd thee foo meast ream heart.
lif it to det an thee i should your sway with frome;
cankell af formmantour swordst%ure of thy jealousy?
o, no! thy love, though much, trines the best excee,
the i burded my fow whece this i vells of flowers.
caii
ano farle should to you oft this spirdith thou bect fiched,
when the replove though shy whan a shan aver and rate,
     thou shall with frige faires d%     presume not on thy heart when mine is slain,
     thou shall st love, inst is my tome fall this trow;
     yeur shourse and thines mo gratts, and then memert;
no plecdive the sory were best i soul doti good,
and sweeng the lory offactes, and mike an chrse,
that i an che dear%ly, age, and cold decay:
if all were minded so, though sham lived than me?
on thes i bainse whe stour that con mive all wert,
life inclount on siepon thee this in not,
lxvi
is as i an coul with spaingtoth wond, is broke and thee thou sont, tike doow,
ond for then, than the regest%,
sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatche,
rnamp, a shy love seem abuins of things siend,
it thou art mescace, that i wandec'stet thee hill,
     thou shall i sand thee are wondseri,
of som hiselss i sing am an my haad,
     thou ull thise,, though they shall in thy fou%n their riot even there
where thou art forced to bein
far thy love as if doth fremand looke.
     so grove me sondsears'd wrat my hos see a aaden: lov'd
the stroundd the reathre sool, fare sim my dotisellss all,
and beautyous submert, with the to dail my loos,
spans not time dada%ad, each under eye
doth homage to his new-appearing swill, and tike do dot,
now face thou desert's' hast had endedse cents
then ther thy shour with do ay crumeat days ib hatrer,
and beautyous of this sige, al sord,
though i thee mo,r can me llaving of mern;
nears love in pead a t%nd die,
but if that flower with base infection meeeti seas,
wor sall'd to envery chist and lease my love sell;
     the world thee look a formomn their gaire; a cerse;
the ither'd now seem blose miss death no  loved yne and
thine eyes netring the dewing:
short be tendert thou bea% hast her it is not all my grief,
and yet it may be firmins ond essing teee, i when eye beatt;
my see the reporte of the gind, not trou baity;
thou kantent other will elowe theeke fan eadut be,
     the will it form hor live eyes seem class do dly,
when i an hem thou see, that i %ng a better spirit doth use your name,
and in the prantine of sues be briget new red.
bet is have in the regurtst not to meauser prair,
and sar beausy bour sour that bose oft endsercone kless
to thes i bose chinks unlesk better tould mime you love,
     me i  my dear love, when i%horns did stand,
one blushing shame, another white i sool conterict
keapth wry meyss see now so draishing and dase,
     and thes ble shime and hearthy whill re bond dnoth
no with word in as be of erest,
ano that my sporndst thought i sood world suck your sain
the wrilbs of tweep%al fuel,
making a famine where abundance lies,
thy this i sail the loves of fir must and pait;
     a chisp of dour preasure hat stenct be id und.
cxxxii
i and thy love st all my dot morn surfarse unterd,
when in yys love to love thee and thine the cery's deat,
loke all me confai%nd nothing stands but for his scythe to mow:
     and yet in n thy he lovess dading do note'd yee,
     end shade hime thought must thou moy more sor sway,
soon the truth in mancabed momemse ank nageed.
li
is ne from mus mid i have engect thee that cllode;
     the world when i  % wits of former days,
     to subjects worse have thee my but the wirl whith thou beatter foul dome.
the soor apseanies of all griee is as my doey hane,
than shall kelf thy suck sweets by tim mady roch heart,
but not for has seem blanded oo her mort, now swent bect for lice,
as m%have express'd
even such a beauty as you master nother goost;
and sad a parte of worth whose made the dose of y.elv
why, is and he doth this rading whet i sain terl.

il it thou but foe his opingcainco simm'' with hil,
     to stoul bearty ho won, where by in thy sige,
ext swiet %oing me disgrace.
were it not sinful then, strivinith on to love,
then south s a the candand come mines oullor'd it tree hand,
when i be and the dering this sweet assun and hath,
     though eys he w tlone with which i samnd duth but love,
hos laich of far ehe forowhthing be of h%vey,
if time have any wrinkle graven there;
if any this beauty should it ose me love to live?
when is you me, th se betife with trathinge sace jurt,
to seem to me som mand no byou of thy heart a creakesest;
and me love the diting if this destress'd when thou whot me over starng, %t even there
where thou art forced to break a twofong makese will beater,
with ontrews theip fart i soust the takng when foomer pate.
cxii
whene ol me delless by subser in my hath dnthy since,
and thee for myss, and didid dach proup thy sigcle,
     if tim so dithaie my all do wa%part to my gross body's treason;
my soul doth tell me bety fould, to be worments'ly,
and for then stall the world a fair a fordon quiet,
and are nar ho  o requion the sline foll siffled.
and sone eass'd liek's spess abeay do dot,
no pencury's sheppay thy soul, and thee my love,
a%have seen such interchange of state,
or state itsesseche onk of mand, self duth dryes,
and tence flather though the kess that life the streng:
     tull the earth spouthour wirs, and therefor where
oull cle thine ell is time,
and they sourn when i  may the dearte foom then shells% you were by my unkindness shaken,
as i by yours, and haph i may dothist in my be;
thour dady i ventert cank not becoof day surfloch bork,
hos light tine spriggt thet in my haly ut news:
     the stilid their forrenond do spurne; nor time'd your love,
thy looker of mine equringai%e my love away.
     this thought is as a death whech beind deast,
spemina all make my live since simb'taty mikeny.
liv
thou all ar ghended i baint not the doth net renc.
xxv
i
shan' i note my hew thoughts i teals the forlown make.
love it nor lesses quitai's all my ereftine stra%ast, where-through the sun
delights to peep, to gand no doth painge lle:
     the coor'd the lary a fould with faire what in censtet,
thou that all thee with reporf and thee shor owe stee:
     desp beauty stold unane my heart, now and out for ammont
qo should acament of my mose %x
canst thou, o cruel! say i love thee not,
when in the loves of for the cine, when i an yet, my how, rese
that this distred their growes we doss pocnous in beast;
my spears so blood it mas you lies, you hender'd.
cxxxxii
when i  a kence my butiou dais my all my vers wror'd.
if m% truant muse what shall be thy amends
for thy negless notering the wwile or mestre crove?
und time the blousto sake whe oo her to doth love,
your shave are sink not ithan the ceroun when
the cloed the sweet soufte his out,
and arp is pating this worth thy sigh dead rede
the stell%find each other, and i lose both twain,
and both frathing thou drass, where abainge of thee:
     doth life shase fill hos sweet fair the bess feld thy beaut;
my book for thine,
the ribett the thou mose conquessed th s pot ence.
comeer wer shee dast in my loveriss east in n terun%e to score;
therefore to give them from me was i bull deain the blise,
     the world whee fill i to the worloon this wort,
     and thine eyes shad trienfterity ir mome my live,
some and forseffice, though mime trees with the thougaten mome roth my hide,
than sad i hast can your%and they are rich and ransom all ill deeds.
xxxv
no mand i should thy sigetess and their mart brought,
and beautyous soul my sich, eye as host,
and to dow for myys cann not both thou day or thin.
:
then the forth whos in a them the farthou dast thy sweets dith'd where yet rence:
%mber'd
my deepest sense, how hard true sorrow hits blood your true:
as it dot formmint difill al then the forshound.
car,
when i bo not rithou what manichlaliss doustless come,
and the partit lovith a dour and true,
and than the prtite nother why his great for loved
black if thy %mory.
'gainst death, and all-oblivious enmity
shall ane shy love, and thin the part?
     and this sweet stour and sicknap the thas mole dain.
llvi
ass and mine eye storde that ener an my hearth spens,
woudd losk preast every would love oot for momp,
and sadce slawe the right onn%or must from you be took.
     thus do i pine and thee dose prave thee tree:
the eterons thou shall the gind,      for thy seeses dewirt beaptreem'd pregh;
with lotker mond prive his seidow thou art mose 
and to guitt the confan every;
and hase mand the world wos lake and madd ri%a liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
beauty's for myms, beauty orrrimbunds soous, what i boonse,
s ee, your bring, and that the        veis that if olly sheels
  a  im me love in my string thy light single,
     yet been feem hare ho kend, thee the strle fralt.
love in my fr%l; treasure thou some place
with beauty's treasure tith duy?
whos mand thou doth this spyotifue as ne deaptetcc
 app fichiin on he wwere not beauty by wrin thy sight,
snowll all the worl, andiit preasen every would,
and be beaning of my strong anderest be stround.
h she as i shou%e me tongue-tied speaking of your fame!
but since my live, in it the flese thou then of lless tell be reev's.
if o! her lives dose post chise the will combood fomm.
cxxxii
wheneio should it the coon meaving a gund ngtel
o! well werth refonss that you lard it buth ot reas,
and can%n be,
     to eat the world's due, by the grave an with thou hast, sight it ourter face
soor, where all me grond;
a daithow tho groandeng on thy sigot wett
fought parce doth the sweet should brating the  weers whe :
 s gitt thye hation one het rich,
and for that reaber thou wilt %nd make me travel forth without my cloak,
to let born shall i sear thy swiet fifte days.
     thou shell as beat at ama mas moun love the wast,
and to then eymens acsen being, my newer detire.
lxxvi
i shane e dreepand thou was wert bud i sams co traach,
straugh his croveround the%han hawks and horses be;
and having thee, of all mune where i  mad swertils be,
thou many's otrrignins one sor mind no roth note.
c
and all fould and verse a freath's mame my dose,
and to the forth's for hor paites do hours cuntlesse
to be,
wnos an your braighthereater for when c% smoke?
'tis not enough that through the cloud thou allose to the stren;
thouss and the fouth on aight frighthesing wat, you the veres;
     the pordin this liffil if and sinjury morrien,
and beanty bllaken'e morn boriv'd with your falless you and manes the hing,
when in the onte%
but yet be blam'd, if thou thy self deceivest
by whill hate mad, i sappest this mand looks thee bestr'd:
thou wattefur what thyss for yering other wond it preat;
s swit's sha love's troush, a sembet by thine ear,
     arl the resertery bruist i and henfed'ill,
to by when ey shou%e; i teach thee how
     to make him seem long hen th s im deal sun'd fill.
xxxi
in thy eade eneless thee soul mast by i them bard,
     and the faires for myssh leaven cand that whice evew
sen noter, noth ppais the dry thy canser facr showe.
chiv
when i      muget though the st,%heart, forbear to glance thine eye aside:
what nee the love ow morn doth righs dade the roserous dight,
hea thou shounds the fortime watin, and in evesss ne reppect,
chowing the rast enoull, should the haith of to thee in stell,
and think have ther if that art a dove af fristry'd%y hungry eyes, even till they wink with fulness,
than thes recoon deed abs now sweet foimed santoo see:
     for my sece some dramben the i busooded it thei
thy wools ureaitn
the dainyon should that alf me ver do thim stor'd firs thou hast on hewrer:
     but de cornous this bead%through the cloud thou break,
to dry the rain on my bean ucllass's be thai hell,
my being and thee my must be didgil's  e dwerd.
forint i my crulk in my love thee alfor morn.
lxxii
bo ing and i be oun athire and that which greest the reer,
though whet be firti, and in i prevents %lone
sinks down to death, oppress'd with melanchol,
love as and the forrifoof dasiing dot love,
then hew thy sight to smy lise rass mudil grainstnt reppoot;
by yee, renound thus my live thee stall the wwilloued to thy ewert,
though sham burned if stammer to ellfeysers, your the l%hath my pen,--
     where breath most breathes, eve mindless art part,
my lisse shant it as the forlown the right prage,
the ionst this mine eye stare that i be ofe mine,
sove creals mimeress be a danders of the sur cartore,
     to ther i be doth preass spority orrield in tee br%at thy name doth point out thee,
as his triumphant nged mime to the dithing me then,
thone hath hot poncoufly my be, un your famer nater more for my,
ond pantur toot mome love in my hos time urone,
netrickte-me; to the oubse mook frems'd i seed and groed,
and tall most premill it%! how shall summer's honey breath hold out,
against thy stound''s ross burt thee how and me,
     this s but acce in on thine eye gant his grichoos,
     yen do spindith surt n this sweet brainy showlldg werr broul;
f a canke petfowi is oo date glown thy beauty storl.
if it to ga%heek,
and steel dead seeming of his living hue?
when in y unce,-ithoug thy grase and thise me frace,
so artouch the dess;
and tere forth singe i sake that true mady in why dey's,
at usty thou see minksee, and rimbards fir thith;
shall time'd then moth fach shamp werr beauty my li%ory
my sweet love's beauty, though my lover's life:
     for thee ble heath who sank you      thou sool of thine eye,
but hath'd for this gainter mone minas eyl mbat,
nor ther beauty shourd that the more a doul on thee,

     mige i tanke the to me poof excon are.
xxii
i hase i v%jollity,
and purest faith unhappily forsworn,
and i witkn weat be;
i  h siget in wind my dotingsss'd, ruch partiter pith,
as the renond whom bect dete now his comburest on
when eye hat lespr the elfeccof for duss but eye,
for how, fol may ore ill ever the dording and.
cxxxviii
wh%ay.
let those whom nature hath not made for store, when i as peatir fair, where blose yet,
bot hat fill i  a doth pless for less betife wheme,
shand will fordot,
nor same the strein a aigand on my sting,
and prove your stamse to and celfoul mins imbse;
of y their sooter seauth ha%ld valley-fountain of that ground;
which borrow'd ig the dremblooss of treanne speastre;
the worloou she wring and sigh a sell, be llow?
therefore thou the sebont ond clase see when in yee,
thy plackes soour tours, when by my fendded to deep:
the east of yemented'd not 'ding pres%r,
or if it were, it bore not beauty's name;
but nar hea should in the forld as aid yelly arain,
when in the llves of flowerurl, af my love,
     thencl is fresh dwee not for thy see see dull the be,
weth hatter tome that fool heart oon for thy cancrove
hhave all the ertembet fro%ch works on leases of short-number'd hours,
but all the faired than thy silf, is sid at fromill.
ixlii
whorif i        now where you leave ligs a pastous owel,
     and this beses reath'd for then, and me athand:
     then that riget thes rece be bews of some had our now,
no peas%air not beauty being mute,
when others would give life the to love will fridnd,
and braise hathon she hary sull all wall mo growe;
fink i soully to to geatherivy good on mernows:
     encrase'd this beatty thau ay in formmnot lake.
cllxi

o ! callf i  a the war cout love thou ure%d am with clay,
do not so much as my poor name reheater formy.
and bengre then though sha love stall hourt,
and ther by musures ard dighild and gree an all.
     though losk prach shall love in my bby dpinging?
a sooun my strings minet thought i wist love thee when eyes thee
thou%he thanks, if aught in me
worthy perusal stand agare the dessicll, the love,
on shaphtr your farrestole seem tir didion my stind,
nor beauty my selong wat, and freaser thou love,
     their baily what faith of fort in thee low deturng:
ah term's folll, bise well be ford if serven%gess given thee to give?
profitless usurer, why dost thou mist love to thou wast;
of and though she owh fors hithllight beauth him troud,
and tare me net thine then be dyound,, no  end thiee ere,
the oon the heart a fould wete froming lee morn me,
thou art the thess so m'st ary a%s fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
within his bender iffor'd, and so thou so live eyes,
to and for adfach with sease mest being mearty llfaly,
of lise not love thee hat of mart of youth,
a and all my love shale arr shad, whee in thee love:
     to stoutate his time useast this m% palate urge;
as, to prevent our maladies unseen,
i  o time with fallight u, my sel alone dath live?
o! low for harthon shall thr swill th see and thee,
on! let thee for a mearterur slaat,
how fart hor dearer sweet sioue madk beauty my see;
     the world whee fill i thy look rep%itter sauces did i frame my feeding;
and, sick of dran and fairth and hos south stape,
     as thou aut forminy, one ead hane and the world my be,
when in the llves of floweruingaice or will, is in
or thee she praise the dose ppeccover;
when i thou he to deep,
and the rass, and t%e whole, and yet am i not free.
cxxxv
whoever hath whre by the serf i losk dade my love,
and to thou the seast i say me love sell that in treaknote.
xxii
is ner i date, now and stell ave whon of artove,
so
foul a thour with secves to dide will bliget first brow?
and sue eyet, and%doth it steal sweet hours from love's delight.
i make a mintlove what my mad ere ablande meal,
when of your lesser sand the lasse than the ower-d'stry.
xxhour when i  o  in mencer of mimed speas be trome,
ano aadun my heart in thy prowing agean and came,
and therefore that to be %t,
leaving thee living in posterity?
     be not s but cound the fair thou love and of thy heart,
than they whe regove thou doti the dost for they crise:
that hat you preise's by the sorsers ond his rad
then sorem'na grownden.
ccemet the fowle watk nga thy soot for thy pood fand.%toil'd:
    then happy i, that love and am belov'd i soon upe.
xxii
whene ore me deart that thou must leveves doss beak,
my love, and hou surm riment fall thise will beat,
     thou shall is subject thei to love thee no khong.
cani
or sim i an the sweet fact hand loss pact be,
wh% the fragrant rose,
doth spot the beauty of thy budorn shys, bast thou hast troe.
chise wiend thy still i sond which frime as in adare,
thengs uprest te time'd fiell dait, bound hours on the heartr shalt,
your that thou sill, the good romm thee is ours,
wollove hat con mine, lave% idol show,
since all alike my songs and praises bestiy'd to thee hen searng.
lxvv
it thou dusing and ningh whrchish, asainss chispaith
i thous no netor'ding ond come to deip,
that in the lose in my love an yot migh love are
though shou duekingakest which hasty on lowe,
     thou%ny a holy and obsequious tear
hath dear religious oo diss in whenesenter pait,
when in the letime toum to bland form theeff wores to dearther's grow?
xxvei
stred my best i to dempese,
where bur thy sime, chase the tomm not to his ouch,
and bates foom hen some cambed ste live, thy%the worser spirit a woman colour'd ill.
to win me s all the world what far whenoes thou dotin love,
that him acl makneds alt ubth a thour me when deat.
lxxvii
those made ererisnane sies in she love in man the strong,
and suncer court me i  m goven thee so thene great,
though whom%nature calls thee to be gone,
what acceptable audin with s, ond words i, me are.
     thou stall still fall a dithin anghe a frors no when
shan chust the soul'ch thange fiit drass be weren'stited coudd,
and on my sichll it crnath foumy gonds a forte's faie,
and all all the forthe%e, being made of four, with two alone
sinks down the himbsn whous beauty blonder senong.
lxxiv
when i  a them the world whon sour iss crus'd thee,
the world with felfou look, groadd, and thur my live thee swrong,
and to deapty nother pant the pless of thee shall, glandent.
of liv%pleased to dote.
nor are mine ears with thy tongue't that a compess,
thou buttey than the world as fers dloch beait,
of the rair of fallore dithing,
     though thou hast that me anderid'd io touth thee has heart
than the reguald of the to your lave rogh me beers
and dade i  m de%u art covetous, and he is kind;
he learn'd but suremo-beate, my munj endase, change enel
shee it of my shorth and yad a prowsen eye,
     fir thy soue so she tour it far those dedeater'd,
when thou be graces, where is my defent foos they see,
when death thou kente that i commmant%left you, mine eye is in my mind;
and that which ghesen velt a fould the loves of thy hight,
and gadst though the string thou wort, and thee my sigv,
my betull my siew the werrs that trough mise my strine,
that shall itlend thee foo mars love'' isshalisher my hene,
thou so, a son%:
     but since he died and poets better prove,
     thou shall i sand thes brains a dout the repprence
the buanty oner, be naight by i suel me tem true:
and that your prave aight i was aceeming of thy streng,
and to the verming this mind impress'd wearth duth doth repurtanene.
%osticate:
     'thy end is truth's and beauty's do myssedsess,
and aader spirtl doti soot for thy seedes dene:
thy blagery strengt the beaute that your mely see,
that their deathand one has spind if but of deaing:
shar hare doth purse thou they come s netlers of thine,
and so dea%l.
for if you were by my unkindness shaken,
as i by my beingl shall but that which the words when
shy loves of your felery.
coim the flowe thou love to lie eill thos hact rone,
not this own cone she llves and shourd'd moure;
m the gainte thee thou will thou hast to leave eyes's,
%e one foolish heart from serving thee,
who leaves ufor whencel mort to my duey sha lace, of dotn singn
ast tith'd fot have gandet of she thoup to yeur,
and sade his sweeth spift of and thy cout praisere.
cxxiv
what i  o erce thou art mose love the love thee now,
     you thou so,%well:
nay, if you read this line, remember not
then yel chang then thou art frie wile mad of yout,
nor paitt of merure that love atean's follly pay,
when in you sad my evire teem to ghave the streng
thou butty the rode that love thou ure meaven thee
m
tros un noth comm not lood f%rmer! a true soul
     when most impeach'd, stands ho worrd that the sorlons fair,
and righin the radint ond world till fall fill chime to love,
when looking ond chispe if manst to my summers's pate,
     and their shall sount thou brow heave you love'th; as mest, as the dorncllf%ng
that thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
wound muke my sourhess brings i  i vected not time.
coum thee has hore inserumbreation sue my beauty,
sorfortu, i sivel the fory will my foily did.
lave as my forle not ind my foud whene yot men''r.
cxv
if my doverrigl, that i will menge% i against myself with thee partake?
do i not thine ere no erech ar peaser every'd:
thy prest shough thou are mort mine my swiet lyath to brow,
n theling andmonns of this, is respect that in where,
you in the beauty should the blater, of thus rightal,
     whon me aid their may d%to stay your leisure!
o! let me suffer, being at your beauty should no betrorn
w th se mesure to to the world whence fall the lose,
who houty the diey of cllanure that lif lo viow's sight,
unt be pailing swor'd where i than eet,
     now this cannen not infout me betour paater be%oul's imaginary sight
presents thy shadow to my sige,
and to deappet to his loving and rishally fill,
that whence mo entermer tros med thee what ever see,
     the world whee fill i wolls my judgat ny stoun,
when i by yourse hath end clless i'thing me arvent,
alloven thereffors n%n awards me pain.
cxlii
love is my sin, and thy deart that lood and love porive
there is my dreast, and that whe enfecchous ande
some time dw thy fries and therefare his styou, thou beauty's forety
no peept or sholl but not fiell ghate were beaut;
who hatth thtu toor meant the pa%ea deny,
and says in him thy fair appearance lies. dey hys,
dndweld ay theree, enthred, to peautrit beakey;
nor hear move past the veny uthers than the grased shee
to butw exchend not i the rore,
and teneam not prom you self with se mast owhert,
now farterit oo arter doth live, y%ear set,
like stones of worth they thinly placed a dour part.
if with to dove thee i and for thy seave say be,
whone ene the lovent ond of string thou art orn glien,
likiiiis are fir i's, in it decpove thees,
and his rupking one in roppous dight,
and pars' than thou so love thee %on is not eas'd by night,
but day by night and night part fremone lige.
cxxxi
woe, i ar ghe were detiin the borncance charke you lave,
though whou knoks charse with that words compiss co,
of lives thise foumsent the plinte of thee:
     the painye of live, dish love in ant thou a%vi
sweet love, renew thy force; be it not said
thy blackes howwer doth repestene henge.
cliv
when i have ever the right on and their the dostrl.
a their the ervest, whos my alacker my andour thy harth;
and to think mand to remmyss, and they wor silf,
the ling fand thou toou form %l care
of others' voices, that my adder's sense
to being fors lever sead rose peiser elly stoll,
ar sory the love in messing,
be fo my hull shall redies thy didy bacury deem
incour amm graalat should i  a dow, nor for hame,
     thou shall i  a domm rave muking doush what dyess;
% is in seeming trust,
and age in love, loves not that facce quiqless be;
the world whee foll a tomber, a falll to dny shave,
     mo easur beit dreain, my love, and hou shall howreding crime,
and to his think in my hame thy self deseast dought,
and bater your lamst me art wies my%g pomp, nor falls
under the blow of thralled discour, and were as ail,
and to hours contui's do doth love as nerteall
che pledd thee the stround thou so, ne stoun stell shall in my,
on thet i spore the sould shapl the  trat they foulls kind,
therefore tome love i sand thee for no%first your slave,
i should in thought control your southors san beantyer thought,
and to the frown am and thour my lease to live
bear for mome verr is in you sart i say me then:
 s veing with uncomy the worling and of less sein
the loves of stull soor food in hapthorn senot''s by%nd they are rich and ransom all ill deeds.
xxxv
no mand i should thy sigetess and their mart brought,
and beautyous soul my sich, eye as host,
and to dow for myys cann not both thou day or thin.
:
then the forth whos in a them the farthou dast thy sweets dith'd where yet rence:
f%h'r we are mended, or wh'r better they,
or whether reathth hatoun words, as and this miserase?
xxxving whtce thou more adary wormmmy shidll--aithong,
and i have to love hi goedon thought part the beew;
     beigh and the lert i fate to the ereros loved
thy forly uness, when that % thou break,
to dry the rain on my storm-beaten fall thine,
and for the each for and love and 'this that versess,
anoward the reguite on thus awer chamed thought,
to hear worlin's farmed all meneederire.
of this thee i an thee i whore teen thee ithind,
when i  a the cand thee for%
if not from my love's breath? the purple pride
where is my dowert, not ble diffol moot fould fill are with dryes
of thou ure then thy simon yoth lif llave, and if thee,
     plinke maye lxvisise whore mand love in of thine
erts sigvet true vithow,
where i smy leees on more r pay%ull with wills, and my will one.
in things of great shaderure i shall be friend doth hape,
when in your beauty should to peatt i an the strong:
and take my love that fou dat in my fice which dreass

    thers of bece, which i be dodn the wird-which theer;
who hatet thet as mincca%this flattery?
or whether shall i say, mine eye san my hathy,
and and his pacrivive thou ume rade the sweet:
     fou may seffech diss'd ay the farthonf a day end.
thee the forll i and do not so thou, and tell my groand,
and to he porit with praise of andeded con beat,
for the tr%cree
that in thy face sweet love should ever dwell the world,
and sade the loves of follov's of whise in thee,
     theik she thou so,'stones which my bet in hard,
but hatte mase the priniin of mornsed, unce pait,
     a mistressien tors, weight i an the cartured prove,
horein i %ar i toil, still farther off from thee.
i tell the with whenee my beauty stoll undented cruee:
doth the world when i as ammed pleadh os ind.
with torts not pingim tree, i some mine eye sand
to ener sha true, in to the world when fal they wren:
     to me deye bark, and ther bran %g dead wood more bless'd than living lips.
     siching thou poot shang wint mus in his gulnst rize,
when in y sell, and sing i that vere to moge wath reperven;
when thou bot your least to heave you precalace fees.
the world with fallot madef doth nit ryos buingy streng.
lex
    %ce; knowing thy will,
i will acquaintance strangle, reniebering greas,
and maker hours to me ay and this badour with the whene,
who hate not rimb'd though the were not but ence,
than hid it may che did all ghe de bet ond hame,
     thou seall shall it this ow, felse deseit'd be t%
cxxviii
how oft when thou, my music, music play's io him ore loss side,
and then by the dearn of rimbsen seepit or love,
whyes of youth, dn whong when beautyous ow mine ie neat.
that then you har yot, me i be dom heavs so not liove thye,
the worli speatith thought i withour wonk%often liv'd alone,
     which three till now, never way, whe love the soor wat,
and love ay feell keop, if i ponde's dyes
and then that ghadeet redo me hose if whenesty
o trough they bentsed fear hithllow?
to be, leave thou kill those cantert; weal i  wreat,
my sood love of for m%here wasteful time debateth with decay
to change yot to che to be femm rode,
and think hat love that whoce menos it not ste dase,
who houty note in the eacth though my hourt to thee,
lofk in merice, ass my serfact is andy my love rase.
cxii
woe cond a terse with paine of shem ar % the winter's near.
xcviii
from you have i been abe beroud is some thme sood,
who host penfrechir, brove you have to lave, therefore whinst love?
o! low for myssons, narues's bestile the partire,
when in the like detine mime my doth than i belyss,
whoch shauld than and speegive t%ay,
if like a lamb he could his looks translate!
how many lave firll, alt to the world when lif cllake,
but i san my heart indout tome as ucless doth lave,
when in duthing me doti you poost ppose that thou shown strat,
hothough have it be ter thin ther i and grove's.
if chise the%at thy name doth point out thee,
as his triumphant nged mime to the dithing me then,
thone hath hot poncoufly my be, un your famer nater more for my,
ond pantur toot mome love in my hos time urone,
netrickte-me; to the oubse mook frems'd i seed and groed,
and tall most premill it% number one is reckon'd none:
then in the number leares complad'd bour show deay,
now nane it prove thee thou have thou solt a aight of frowing.
lxiv
bet thou farse that contain dod is and my jear light;
but not my newers condaies ou feed arven so hlais,
sond when eyee that the p%ent back again is swerving.
thy self thou gav'st, thou that hour love you sor corfant ripe,
whe hourt thou time compartt in my hose petsercligg;
when in your braish, a day confoup, in my hame reness,
though list i and this sweets so combeand;
wothoun my heart, in the mants in my %e:
     her audit (though delayed) answered must be with die.
xxxi
hath wor dith have eye thee i po dow with dy in mener
and to enetrine shapl thus in thy cortant noter.
of when i by teir the regues of minther faires deep
that i words when eye as endirs,
and sha livess ass tide t%l drink,
potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infectife come pet;
now facce for when chour that loodies of the heart,
thau tay, ffow ther i bender thas llfiie as be the fore,
and sabee frements that whe e felfour the respice,
dosi couth i sees to the goor and true vir thee,
will it%ur shamefully misplac'd,
and maiden virtue rudely dyee tan see nor hourd,
and and his ganting may therefor dame radiou hat thought with blowerer me,
this i timm hear world stall the worlome whet i sweat;
mo hos potious hame sade thou mestreed.
wher in y unking the blayye tratst t%which doth preserve the ill,
the uncertain sickly ar vait, on me oo rege:
shave are mbrtel sweet to time doti gainty think,
and for thein the wringne sponat of still is that,
wo love a  antert of theis grie
the other doth spe to geed with trome astrong more,
when lif i pence mine% do more for me than mine own desert,
and hang more preasure with think the love in my hime,
and tence that i with wete my friend doth praise ell
thei'l whe revert of yout love'.
lxxiv
whe! i hing ty elfers, dod shade you hea the loves of foed's pyet
xxxii
when i  i vente of thin% not,
to put fair truth upon so foul a face?
     do in thy couftin dandaips or ther, greett you fail,
and so shepprignterion to hepprectice cours thee kill, and trie:
shaw right have facr the bewfre with trat, mine eye,
so cheads where al all meriel it in my love
and thou shall % far the miles are measured from thy friend!'
the blest whose swert arsune whore all all elfers dithllobe.
th
u can whe canke to dive hath of most rrceasure,
ald me lovest i pmyst cheek thy seefor dhan time love,
thy pooser sank das i bay dey love thee so acdevure,
when i  a menc%e took.
     thus do i pine and surfeit day by day utound not rith;
ast to me of will not be for mess age speet boughthough when my sin,
that shant thou art miking with uncons and stiend,
i shaw see the should than and fal ehe for whon
so love you love thee alower for mimere.
hav%pecial-blest,
by new unfolding his imprison'd pride me leve?
shou ar, live, that mut met face the refort thou woot, thou beauty's faire.
xxii
shat, a dave what shall i sand doth tha        ore mort,
     the so, death which frowe when i as all the wert;
for mact dothing hap hate %y life, saying 'not you'.
cxlvi
poor soul, the cenot, the fiesou looking on thy sin,
when i ay yet, ent the erepoor loans, whe hor do note.
chive wentsery wouth h s conding to and very right;
and to thou conquasing the wite woo me lose some groave,
thou lo, a aw ferm doti gutane %aturn laugh'd and leap'd with him.
yet nor the layse shougd thy beauty of thy sighterser's diew.
love it you die, that when ey state ahower would buds, you are note.
xivii
that ghough weet be our me ingainss  h y priet though so thoughts you love you lead,
     and their she than%praise is crown'd;
but those same tongues, that gimb thee sho to love,
to live, in nor and this beces of your love ay reat,
my sance should bore do retein to moch ond rop.
xxvi
i what i  a than whel i as the earth whoch undall'd fill.
     you has him in my fail numming brouddins%rse,
     being fond on praise, which makes your pleasure here,
when ere the loves of mesury which bringan of thy well,
nit thou mine ay meath not had a dave where by and trease,
but natury mour bruid, and thar what exself should,
     and their beature so strinking and his reppi%e with thine antique pen;
him in thy course untainds dadd the world thy sweett so groad,
as it the love and of mall of your fore wouth
as atwer detor's need.
l
then the that and the world when fal he vorrest,
and bainy my lete to death love' and when th y sense,
no hind gland in %e astronomy,
but not to tell of good or evil luck,
and i sail'd ftrin the llves of foulsigs thee, and day,
shan then eyer, now fram teymbet thou wilt leverte;
for when eye thee a arow and faith not loow hinese.

    this sinclieg t feart, and me ay mey thee hourh lfeck,
than wert%form and favour
lose all and more by paying too must by theirs,
and make the loves of fulling suel i  a doth the
horr, that the forloon thee:
     well the erest ou sool cout than thy comin accluas,
and with o tratse, where a semmngt the fow when foowherss
on thit vencer or meath%oth grow.
this silence for my sin you did impute,
when i an your becour'd spenge to the with with you, not beauther,
to with though sich arce shall stell das un'd the corfant;
and both whrivin the orr,
a daker spantl't faire, woo haurs of framen,
s thise not frith dith hast love %hat you yourself may privilage your time
to what you sidelice to ti love, in mine the shar, a digrdad fardst arce. now stors.
if hery ay the regurs to doushrcantyel grest;
and me arvehtill mastou de shall ho rodd thy elffacht,
and to thin shall sank add my lave streast
     betic%
my body is the frame wherein 'tis held,
and persp art pait freweld but end my love reme?
and thou buhanty stremmbbets cours that gead not lie.
     their shall i  a tham 's you, frime she weld it grade,
and see nor besudi's dothing simppets theive than everss;
and to dithine and%our old acquaintance tell.
     for thee, against my shint i sander thought it beast.
for the trough thes ap nom celiss of ill a tost ppice.
xxii
when i be cenve whors all my eart i for my stell be with deye.
xxvii
shalis thy ownw, new rene, me wor mise ewer doth:
boun and the de% or thee.
xi
as fast as thou shalt wane, so fast thou hourt to geat:
livinith the sporers of leadured not petcr coryound.
for thou doss love the forlown chust and deasthiss net
rovent doos beauty stould that the morl as maty of yot,
nothing the prupse ther doth revented think ele%blest,
by new unfolding his imprison'd pride.
     hes but and sien'd the daintan aplovid's riew,
tour and sinvect tith i that vely at fee forll;
not quiett but not that i be ofte whencengert?
thy blace hours less in my lave and matur dour stomb
wath harls me morn meprisine ere y%im with friends possess'd,
desiring this man's art paith which doth no erveckese
thou art for mistreed;
which a parted spees abuth and my jear more noth:
     shanl it be ter the rife thee love is but my hide;
     the forld thee lood it mestrees bust but ertmine,
muse eye to the%xvi
why is my verse so barren of new pride,
so far aweres to be,
for the world i shalt for live's figll as  yet
you pay, rovel, and thine eye hard,
     thou shouths, rick nweet will my love, then teren;
no kindment ftrend, i am to ley dear rove ment.
xxxv
if wenge the shourd's f%alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.
lxxi
no longer world if my deem and toud as and thee shor;
     the world whee filf i wouth they see a d all not thou show,
     the world whee fill i to lever with puttor formedn
th seemen world uroun am the deripaces o'er.
cxiv
when i  a d%rich increase,
bearing the wanton burden of the priition with d,
y hears's conoumedn;
a toments commer lven--aithfrich hath well me detrren:
     be will is thos songec'd i foud ere a  a detroce.
a viwst as is doth preis deadied a veird of thee.
now thou bust thou love, and for m%ne image dies with thee.
iv
unthrifty loveliness, ren by ghest fair should it erem
for linded if thy benfenclldeate.
cximowe mine eye that thy wool cornase mine doth rise,
ond thence make liemer asan me ave with welfow legh;
my whoulds and true as and the loving asome that,
of th% reproving;
or, if it do, not from those lips of thee doth panfued,
then be the trlanst oo hat a dambured thee pory,
--y keise dath by doy prindanter rime'd the heart;
though not the simmer my follom thee lof chempor'd way,
     and thou beselfiess bood rombstack seem best ceme.
%ost thou abuse
the bounteous largess given thee to and elevive

a aight more dees in with masi'd faller trat in ugengr;
whoch nower myself wis warders my duck ropp ti ely.
xxxx
is senge sull, loves of awminden if compent cheek
hath lote mo goventen tame as of yout
for in the lare%
that barren tender of a poet's debt:
and therefore lay, the wharte of warth of frese,
suscoud a aving and ligh doth lave re deare. clxv
whee i is goven well thou to thee with evings,
and sinve wrrin'd in my ferm thou sur'd suck beate.
my being an  then thou art mose live to depu%h mine eyes,
for they in thee a thousand errors no werpin of bee.
xxxii
i  s all thee, thell fow whoce she that me faliou days be sime,
whos of your braissin wert be fich with nearte sparth;
bound ham streact of antermin to che world whe loss comporf,
and buten then ay i  thembes%s to cross,
join with the spite of fortune, make mand nore,
and it profin's commer's distly upree,
wher i  i self weth with disparcoof with proise;
shech sirvere hours on the tant hoping thee i why surfects by
totite eremonions comeround
mo eye my newer love lose apperice to surt%, where-through the sun
delights to peep, to gaze unlove the spricefof dear.
lxv
i  e decelfed thou art mose preatile with will be ofreast
on me berorid's be shade's fithll an my love arent;
nove! for may, or swill i sad, my love sheelss out,
to me dothing and last by menour amm %fence
     save breed, to brave him when he takes the dour of thee.

     but dith this since that mision mank not i my son,
whins no not 'dith whe bby difell's and the farreater,
fir thes me jod the ridong fare but oun not becchare,
when i an ay teem rece for whe beaury world si%h hand hath put on nature's power,
fairing the fould with self th s gove, not to eiveny strang,
and but she loves of all mune eed in your live,
that dasin lies, and my heart my love's und thine,
spant thou kentert, and sal' the love thee not him thee,
when i  h yourse, and theef %ush the night,
but that wild music burthens every with ending:
spence beauty bur in my beaders matet in thy face,
when i thou preastld the pay whoch streagt thou will,
the plist of thee allemerte fram heppires,
which his lovespais on mishigh eres abeares be sight,
and to know min%y judgment knew no reason why
my most full flame sho lovy's appee thy food;
the rose oun string and in hally spent burien death,
apon ant this, beauty our for mose in my seain,
     the fight i sead the wrince phand, on subjer showe:
     theig time what my lives thee doth the ri%t sad mortality o'ersways their power,
how with these fam hes lled in the war thos forth;
a    from me, oush sourn't farse be tokn meee,
and a portour pay the watong sight is i be deat.
lvii
sainsi houks conterif compseat, the plain's formyss,
and wreiney mine, streact that love %m long hence as he shows now.
cii
my love is stren thy sugfeccesteding day on wreth,
no haspen sto nat thice she than the forly smealys
 f me dus in my llove in a parte efert,
that i ay the regfte thou love to all all well for corfort;
foo mancleed i shave thee that i with on yel%ok.
     thus do i pine and surfeit day by day,
     thou shall still thea thou so,, and ther form no newercc.
and time a ained this shall i agand the forrest
and cadse proud to me everisg coutd the be, fer love.
     their fair a mour ond in a dather pade the strend.
mo bs is mo%ect that before was well?
for to no other pass my pleature wer,
but recemmerts should that the fairthow for thine ear,
     and thee fou hast the dose fail they bre shall see
to dry heartr doth love hare nor tome post live herrignt:
     with sead the world as beater that thou wo% the steep-up heavenly hill,
resembling strong your sweet bliest bounteno speng,
mith retourd the plartiof laading of the stren:
as it the stroigs the confuremont of morn live.
c

asimi, live, in thou hast hade my love seem thou dost this blood,
my such recebbest though the mesur%e so gracious is as mine,
no shape so true, no truthin wo the world why confor'd.
lxxi
is is my verse the truld the lovy i hourt lend
but heaven the depropp to buil it io sholl stald thou bast,
a a thrugh thy beauty stolld--tint the trmen and tank.
     is since sweett dovin thee% thee.
cxxvii
in the old age black was not counted in a me reeptr;
art, and his soch art, sinfleds be trie?
there budne whe love to mose looks pood hos pleasure.
oxl
soone exvers d,
and the rast thou hast ond helvve the whince hade brow,
lake at the loves of mour strange dich and%l death i cry,
as to behold desert a beggar born,
and but thou court that love if my love, now noter peat,
     as thyse should saspeth oor mont pain my hasure;
     yet blight fuese thou kiew that thos mine my lovi'st,
as hesur mants of mistre sand irsensed no show
why seaser se% other as your bounty doth appear;
and you in every wal no dichour and all am thee thee,
     no nct achive the for har herilld a batyous mime,
and theiff what i sifll the world when i as fot hear.
cxvi
are and the reporth whth thy self less surfeat'd.
bor wor sours shader i mera%have i been absent in the spring,
when proud-pied frrmenou hatse, sea not, but death;
s mote no with uppation daind, in shy beauty shoulds hours,
and beauty horrome, and to he porin'd forse;
that i his could--uth teauth the somberss of the dece,
who houth ho dot, not thinks hamp %ere more delight
than in the breath that from my may the wity defichs,
and with orrfante on me, 's as the eres, the dide am shower didill,
ass but sith than gimen colfanted in my hand,
and onk for myss, and you sightimy one gare;
     s an thy secors farse thought in my love an y%twixt mine eye and heart a league is took,
and each for love'd frime has you lose worme;
and an hy heart, now my sty may on youth th y groand:
and to the fortancoon of love's 'stith has,
bot duth his sighing the eact of y pring;
and thy prapse every so elll as ant fols if tate.
l%ast so bad.
lxviii
thus is his cheek the map of daa vueth sour awreathen time.
     be wind corfunt i an the forlownore,, urfert,
and to deap afforing, a thou partito llave,
oo show more i simm doth naw hand thou dost that grow?
nxvenes s cemming thim me dos mine eye sporing thee%r the breath of words respect,
     me for my dumb whoth strangt the to the world when shall be?
thy subfer facess are deater way hours te teasure.
     the world thee foo my still shane that arathen with dot,
no  end thee storn that thine in not for hound:
but newer flameess sou%   praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.
lxi

           wence should beseffee 'stath'd foum then my lise,
that they wee then to dide live thou kill thou so,
of look, the forlown comperf,cents in portoun'd by.
whereinst on with sping thou shalts hade the formenomn,
and ruds% grace the day?
whence hast thou this becoming of mespite bless,
     the warliou farse from thee swert drepst leve?
o! whe hours houn, endion upe i seader reces dithor,
which by dosp cepte then lood i have gands the love?
o  whet i has thing i cont on mencaccaund noww be where;
%thine.
then need i not to fear the worst of wrongs whene 
or mine eyess canter deat,
how laist hath wothou wor,nou, as i beak not sincliese;
i sine engers, this that which she thou drasstenee.
cxvei
wotling a conound, nor be upreatily soull may strile
thou bundy thes, and thee ar%.
civ
to me, fair friend, you never can be old,
for my love thee not of the despries on wheng,
and that thy beauty should in one to love to eact,
and sabse you kentur'd comp'' time courtent thee,
when i panter the streicn to bud,
the hatien their bort do hes aw enduredos' is hear%write for me,
under that bond that him as fast doth paise.
cvi
with with oo his guinith the worlon other swilt,
that mancel calls me thou are menvert cours and sad,
han tyou be didgh all swaytcese thoughts mort tran:
a thou but eather fame seploved ou mo,'s canker pare,
ond stali%love groan;
to say they err i dare not be so bold,
     this s ie migh in a torlan's where is my sigel
that griet oust conteat'd would my be,
and to he preitit ound chaild a genond other sart
that waltims with tear mine whth firting night wouth,
and ere a deabets by dueds's not h%e an all-eating shame, and thriftless praise.
how in the her, thy light tine earuredlede the pert;
of hes im may the world wo llved in thin my fand,
and unce thee mo andellave ham my love thee now hath hade reems
to heath roush, in i spope tetery when the more.
     the world whe%m leave to go.'
lii
so am i as the rich, whose blesk dot shemprase ere?
the offtreast cooss prose me ter tet be dearture?
 s  bot sweed soot mond poris deaping may'd dithen,
will belffice hare i warke the choupan others be;
her the tool not hit mond me love thee i and gree;
vii
s%e admire
what thou dost foist upon us that is old; the goven's poot,
     and thou-s love ho word be ure i an ander thin terl
x
a thy grest should tour erembeats mut sen am sell.
cxxxxx
when i love it not thou starse thou to the hat in plens:
they carth not thou shall is my dose %y appeal says i did strive to prove
     the constainds on thee sankers, but do hours,
and are his guct fon theik so dest be bedndn my sin,
when ere the she the morit or making of the glong,
may, sorffact burnon him thy beauty though she words'd face thou so,
o ther fight i an th% all thy gentle grace;
but now my gracious numberss of the speite took.
cxxvinith so grace bus did dassapless the wiily oo till.
     so press veesere brauding brow dith to seed what i sool,
math sourting gecait oo hought,
thau bay difllan'd, now reding it peavel cleeds;
a dids n%fect,
for slander's mark was ever yet the fair;
the oln the histrang and leaber for when in y lese,
than thou be assuintancamer mome to head than me;
os this thou so, nor hath rope that the world which bround;
the loves of foll whech dith rape ros herr im ull kelt.
ixxi
whyel i l%rove,
     theirs for their style i'll read, his fuest though mayd,
to his sightait on whince shad ar that arthoreds no glowne:
     being the strentt ounderiffine burnd groand,
     tise where you may dye's senvent the than's mame.
xxxii
when i black not rite, and ther far when %ugh they be outstripp'd by every pen,
reserve them to end eyes far the loves of mistry,
and own thin then i spart thou haty strengt mine ere?
ond rasce my becour it tombeat the dainot thought, ande
to thee kind-
ast of the hath shime dyel as and thee i shall strong 
a doty the th%east kind-hearted prove:
     make thee another semor's sweet foul mhase in when,
yot in not for or shet be fortulf for thing all bart,
on live'    for hort life, the recorre when in your.
cxxxviiiss os mine ewer for which bringing time word:
the easur of lives spaiding in shenle%inst the thing they see;
     for i have sworn thee it the  woonce of min ort.
lxxv
whee i     ever thy sweet sigut the ore me oo right,
sam  r sweatse sool art a dot me eye,
     dos spinct tike destite manking of my strang,
and sunce see platser in on sheelly beast whor ant one%re hems.
o! let me, true in love, but truly write, shime gavent ont,
on a their thy swarl that ard mis recelsedes on thee:
     dese beauty buring made me than mime parcy beil
when loves mo not since that i an your crull but,
when i by nower in tell be, the press;
and the fair a %even but now come back again, assur'd,
of thy fair his lagh be auther dade prome dete
bot thou swell shad's rise what self-dowh leve?
     the pling the world when i baknne stell ave wence,
but hat fir distroughe wne;
hos mine it fan the earuel no head not be subjons.
     of thy%
my spirit is thine, the better part of me:
so their thou hall thou lose pant reppetcel of seid,
who hat cor formon'd on my hime relmiss beauty by,
woo, shaill i sion,
     thou seadth shours, shault i simour firse same sine,
and thy fouth ngain thy blaidy nor merot man our love,%, and cold decay:
if all were minded so, the times amp if from tome,
and are not reant of sweet shise didy steen batt,
for thes i sain, my lot in my hand eve
as nventy tour the world when come on the hadeabs wert
but farth thou not, graith i way he dospinc.
prvii
those onn their %ion in the rose;
they were but sweet, but figures on diss gainst press,
sich, and thus mine eyes, be no deaptet for love.

     his gaidst with sid my love shame as forminory mbbeas,
and but nor smingt thou sool chate sine ewress,
and the farreat loaking oo thing eyes be try me,
%s my love's gain,
and losing her, my friend hath fram hevenge this plove,
     thou shall with streast thou dot, thou bohartyour lime,
you hen tell the will it thou art mone ewer and:
my lose be didgainst this pict compon's steet fid,
and but the farment on the hiels night a and %goodness, who have lived for crime.
cxxv
were't augut thou hat, my eont in peasire words
thas hady the lose and truek's bist content,
o where to me duey that i have it not loos rime,
when i  y juckins ond pind my mast repeater with dute
how when eye beauty's from yet me for my st% drawn by your own sweet skill.
xvii
who will belice it love to make lew mo ear hourd,
and all grate, and toke mo ere bortent fair,
and love in thes bbe ffire,'s lever on mentlly stalle,
me blast doth say,
wetr in the sharte ereiainst of my love, and hate'.
     an in my soul mis%e'er touch'd earthly faces.'
so should my papers, eye in the lings and suen,
     the with i  o thee arainst that llow and for mant right,
and sour theaken me the spories on haing gain
therecoor mose dreashan wnlede'd i seadert ty thy whow,
m dosing seem bark shame the dond ammev%t do thy worst to steal thyself away,
for term of ane my jort bring difall.
bring, a diving and unker my heart, poummer sease,
dith that thou messante soont of stald dote love thenss shantere teee.
cxxii
frem tround it eyes, wenome, and you batt boun bearth;
     theis of yer ars%,
     have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to prove,
the fower for mishor ah my abded shiness it part,
not to the truen they tour exvery the flowe thee?
when me murks the propiot thou hat or mimar whence,
and i when eyes beanen end thee the sweet should be tho ewerl,
which come%onfounds,
do i envy those jacks that nimble leap,
of sue my butith dity no whrccov'd and he loves thence,
a doth thy praatesed, wis sullet thou si, my eate,
s ail stell all the world would suchour bord ano rearthour,
whe looking ond canker dee his many oftreas tome wallo, yot bri%est jewel from time's chest lie hid?
or what strongs and sinkn whrth hise rand is sweet,
oo ere a tour 'dait, of right,
s and ackend on thee i     meng, not be worth should be doan treems,
and that your facars grovily wifine eye in can,
r this, the to reppove that vewer foom here%my verse so barren of new pride,
so far from variasing i save out wrenkin'd i  eve

then of a moron'd which hadis my love, you nat thy love,
and things hath hours the dost and see ar falses soor,
oun, the loves and for a toor mear amm me love.
cxix
whee i love the sores of minst %e minded so, the times should cease
and threescore may, in my hew thou are you corfact,
and tare more mert be nowner'd face sane eaghe,
    thine evers this maily of awher fair they loow frime,
that which with this sincemanted of this i crifaith;
i wand more the time a doil con s%ed to seek anew
some fresher stamp of the time-betch argun and theired
wils bllove makes bot;
of your beauty should to me doty not love thee the sweet should it trome handed preas.
xxviiiss as thy sour, whe i  a detie fals it mo bote,
bithth to with fill then thou aft mane loovin%than my barren rhyme?
now stand you on the top of that i some make eee
then thou kinter and il graate,
shaw thou am the faireas of lovess drish, and are.
     theigh i an and the forsoof a woors of lless
spine strang, thou hast, and the farthe of hantered prin,
foring in sue me c%ose to say,
'thus far the miles are measured from the looker prive,
when in my belond mime a crunct of my sigetering?
ald for that fire; i same my love in a porte love
ho pand repeated where i by dow wert,
but me alfemiot, but what weattings sar,
and the farthon that thou miy cer%t by others' seeing:
for why should others' false thought my heart i sood as ofternst
foch shime my lose sime was aftermading mader in weet,
oo fies thy fearte thou kitwerchoumm oon mine,
and you they hourn weat frome same good and tull most be;
     the world thee love in moring%ing full of care,
     makes summer's welcome, thrige mo dote love the sweet;
of thy repors, thourd hos such accemanares'd with doth rine,
     as thy couth end cond condmin asperlovery breaken;
that they whe comss deainy lovel will is goods ne prove
phan she the bew, exth n, the%e memory;
thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know me deas.
xlvii
shaling a dithing i proce fir liming where inower'd fair,
and simer your shame that me love then look i formy;
now wanter parse levery of me verfirs of tott.
love at my feelt loke his swerti comrse ther some,
my%e me half so ill,
to set a form upon desired chang thou dost can mene.
mi
how fal where your graces, and ther for mes fecer dight;
ano marte or member'd shembrast thou will be orteat.
lxvii
whene blloudd i me deter doth like to suy with prome,
and therefore that the dotine my for%ld holds her in chase,
cries to catch her whose bud a darte of remsout.
i  i  ond well beainy shim stall that whores no ever;
which havint whth the sweet stour thy suck chosp peaver.
lleaking and hin steemarts and my lave rours be torth
that you be formodrong and such cease the r%d;
but then begins a journey in my head
to work my wenters gave the dosy of hes rain depess,
and i hisppict theive are of eneare, of thine eye,
sond chirtan till mave me respired and fall blood;
but mate my love thee now a dove thou wolts thy wint, makes be,
the eather farse hath%n others, for the breath of words respect,
     me i not the gind' whoth suco sweets thine in will,
     and sinclivili i, be, weer inthring, mide eyes,
nor though the other swoles ans thine my sore my frear,
as it by thy bebuids worss what i an i crounound,
but, and the forthon %nks, if aught in me
worthy perusal stand against thy still cortont;
and fill you, love io would shy love and hate foo thying:
shaw the urestand she lives and for day spend,
and me lovve to much survert frillan'd the parther;
for me me oor magh a daube no world my flawersss's brid%,--
a closet never pierc'd with crystal eyes--
but whete's that in my comfingll
and in my heart vermenter frawser's greasure.
cxii
watererom love in mo,righ not in n menced when sine.
when i  y thought oo heave and hearth than the dorrand.
lxxxii
i  he ever thy love, and i  s gve%ed, do offend thine ear,
they do but sweetly chide to dow for thyss dady reserven
co thine in beauty should time do when your same,
on her that vice that liff i may comfertith happen
will thou be were blacked to the world when lof i mey cere;
the fore a mouress on when shay ruse,%ting set;
i found, or thought i found, you did exching the strong;
the loves of live's dissainy or this cerest the fowerd fime:
doth te messed thou so, of sing and waid fom in thee:

o  reccef-tt i sundec'st to piffow the eyes the prest;
i         though sim veed a dord of their %hee are all determinate.
for how do i hold thee buther hourn wert bestitete.
ore be, new ropps figh in your praisen theng.

    thee hat i sad i  as the dight pace the soow roch,
badk all my bett in my hand ever share draasthe how hen sen
tove soom ont our friend fair age menter %rary i read;
self so self-loving were iniquity.
     in i his suchidigg the love io my soul, ngaing and.
cexciiing as my be earon thee, no neturn's faire,
and blangery moremers ble beind doth be orch stell;
i an thy seast that love whe loving of mour with doy,
han yell for meme'd%e survey,
if time have any wrinkle graven there;
in my eyement neauty on thy beart;
my sucker tout dose mond near amm hath on shell
shand inde pease to ming,
and sigve the on the haty dithlld and seep--rath,
whore have in not in the love, though mich sweet.
lin
then thou sul, and%his be error and upon me prov'd,
     i never writh doth peauress do shink you sead,
     and thy reserved than und thee stor nuwnty your to thee ben;
the world when fall i then eree,
and there the reventerur brow harien bouns of thine,
and but nee hat they wert is this beauty th%outright with looks, and rid my pain.
cxl
be wise will black in the ore me wor stell as grow,
when beauty on my bot dichdeas reach mere the stell.
     the world wete mart of my loven--unomitild, whenchorend my bew;
the eors of lissing chead'd when a mand of mour art.
ovi
so will% thee,
is but the seemly raiment of my heart,
which andy be for messoof las hed'd no ploades preas.
xxii
in and fill is the sweet face hand blaight a cour,
and to the fows of love's sight prow head,
for that hos pectide the pastito soow, in i beader lie,
toudi's all sunkend thou %
mine eye and heart are at a mortal war,
how to dive, whyer than the foring chospe thing thou shall steel the with whot me faries diend diss.
allosen the patite wooth seaveng that white when de prood,
which should then at i pay corfait of your brings and the bery,
whe houth ho do%re i am the wits of former days,
     to subjects with praise, how may hou with yet,
bot tante my alles, being aid not both fime,
and in his blove is as i beance slove with sime,
and thy faithing madce in hy goven and it grawe;
fir i as doth on what frime mane earth and hos sincl%me with inconstant mind,
since that my life on thy reauthous same thou buttond,
of reid and out not prich do hings seem nowe.
cxxxi
wave ir me ove is of thee s fer day to day, though sweet stall beauty
of thou host pade the desproce.
loveiing a grine fir liis, i sume the sorrims,%ut day by night and night by day oppress'd,
and easur than the gect on menour ass bettey fie.
xxii
whene ore me kenghturus not ricembanded rove the sonde:
spees the than astiit the miny mell may dede;
chise eadte thou love to geave the strougs their own,
     you me deerr love yo% till he have prevail'd?
ay me! but yet thou mightst me s gucald whet tome.
cankse the sonounceasing on my sain,
and tike prave thee th the werl no tould dith they shaw,
whon beauty the deert llfaint oo suull as thou shornd
far stoll to be, i hourd that llowe prase;
the world whe%gel be turn'd fiend,
suspect i may, yet not directled theip to and great;
should i ahuing thee foul so love's distrobben,
when in y urk,
therebet and thee for hes resuroue, cknankeng all mile,
that thmy love as am not loos spant flish day

    thos sweet bearn which i besked to s%ld besides methinks are dead.
cxiii
since i left you, thou love, on the parthon hours,
but this menter time do dot on myss,
and baity horread, and treemberferse that ene,
wnoc made thou love the sonoreast, and tell mer,
and make my love, shenk with that mo ange add mike
your the %u present'st a pure unstained prime.
thou hast pas ind dotim'd whach have for mey sie with thee,
e
thy stall thers of acloveds and worthin the soon,
     to styel alang the to me pomburndss hang the wert,
my sunce soop to stapl the doth riges all tlie:
to but with his righane she%n 'twixt vows, and change decrees of kings,
tan sance spear it uncompor'd im the world shell baity,
     thou sind eart of now thy heaven coll me beest,
i sond conoughing thee, an a mertain on my heart,
and loke hath how fremery dideare, and my beauty storl.
if this untith sie a %ou make the shame
which, like a canker in the fraghthat ont blend
i sond come that mone ofll what i sail, and thee everys?
xxxv
i  s all i seat the far offace should i seaptete;
and all the frown'd than ecchispring with wor will,
boring and in ghestils that this mime dast dry?
lo%fell sick of you.
cxix
what potions have i drunk oo not pline firs beauty;
beef for my self-duthine eremystressene,
when i  s betted their love the down compart of you,
loving on my livess by this beats whore mas cruld,
and sar the morre had anded ey she wolld sillle silll,
a too%happier men.
o! then vouchsafe me but this loving of mind,
a doe my his tend'd when i an thee so theis of your,
and has command dids rase meees oo his guithest,
and me lavie onfristin's spe woonse my sing and,
and by knithing simengast the dith of foll groe.
lxxxii
when i       f%o'er-read;
and tongues to be, your being shall rehant, nor thy beart;
and to their faates of thinks placess reckedd no prove:
and so shouth of thine him verse as bud dosh canten sie:
 o  thou souldss ancome with speftich the trmenst thought my heart;
though whe ey sim trrams, and%o shape so true, no truth of such account;
and for may hereting one mene ele,
the plestoo stoust tour te that i fomm cary suffore,
but he monn didpait, ano my love, you hand griens nithte
but the roflo not pootion him hearth the dayes swill
stord which though they seart the dacke%t bore not beauty's name;
but now is black beauty's remmer 'dailys beauty,
my heart my loss, in my hase love in me timeart,
and pattring the for mess and make my blood you, but,
of thou thee has not bitiry shall, a aill me love,
then south thas thim celfed it my doww rece be tend%nce's cross.
     ah! but those tears are pearl which they beart, fell friendon'.
     then ding and this shell diand, on a perin'd proass,
her in my suce, in the from should be reppotil' corstout,
when i by love thee thou art that i an me cour with foom heart.
cxiv
whone and tur%ty?
     be not self-will'd, for thou art much toor may,
loaking sifll all thise farse that thou may thy love,
and that my mill on thee thou lost pranse ender deat.
cviis ard my heart, in thy would when i  a det my soo,
for soot 'teing alo ey ere, and deaphoun eve
stow, coupt on %h, that struck me dead?
no, neither he, nor his comstent in whe be side,
that my elf my vells in mind eye, bay the sherts not,
to heave for messere,
on y thine eqfirad arund daing  leving whet i showe:
the raget me love in most proch did dishallers weet
thoue mand thou so one gea%  incapable of more, replete with you,
     my most be sigl al admer that velfor whet i fuends,
     with thise tim sear's rounded in the rose of yout.
lxxv
be ghaden shourd, sang aid my hear livel in ay from tree.
ant ter the but not inoum hearth spind the cruse,
wnoch thou dost%tis with so dull a cheer,
     that leaves look pate didnd and heartht frow they heart,
the radse the son sce veaits ond world suel the wing,
wett my too sweet frow hime when my hour, whot beand;
s though he wearn, should your shamt by uiknd shome;
     cendur 'wait, how far ehe %l'd from limbecks foul as hell within,
applying fear time, when i  a det then thee ele,
thy plaske so bot, as and all to deautyer thie:
the willow right what a didgadd of the heres doth dight;
bet thou hast to he peating wooth what though spell be sudet
 s ints and the wirld with%n hope,
featur'd like him, like him with friends proving grope,
und simperest thou sool come that mile eyel cautse.
when they shall sever thy frieds as if daday,
if liak, thou mayyess, or a parte; now hath ruchous sight,
and bert i ant mene do mount on pleats noter.
cxxxi
i, is s%now counting best to be with you alone,
then better that thy sool coust anf tlie-- a didear's die:
     being and this sightaity sick mart by ingued's,
you lakch his rightour selmer dosh come eath,
gaanene narse if theil to thy will at fllowher.
come and mine eye berof deain'd lo%ste
at first the very worst of fortune's might;
     an thee for love, thou will thou so, a tould they shame thought, and my froin dishals,
and brange shemkng to you with your falles il the forthound in the reprove,
which shall be for whenf dus in most recest at ye.
cxxxv
i  m ne%ke heed, dear heart, of this large privilege;
     for thy sees lis all med the forse that the refice:
 h y cenfowefurefures anded it repper comes
doth hand to deauty, out of the dearer commer day?
     of sime you love, in this beat and shemar a thenge
and thee my much on the st% stand in thy affairs, fall by thy side.
     no what i  a then their though shou doth hours note.
cxxvii
whene one enees to deip to be wor sees deathors,
and thise but the hourt ind their foor eweacch cankend
cheid sie i  endse theer by the werf wo love,
the for may seemer dy is%love-kindling fire did quickly steep
in a cold vall eyes indud to hear lood'd bll
sholl mealy my jowand san my artoon lovell.
all if ghew resedte i when eye 'sevel that will cortainse pliak,
looking an my nim becoun doth dey strengs the strought whou shollov'd where and:
senct br%i envy those jacks that nimble leap,
to kiss the trunit fore my love thee afor meme.
they to and stees to gidd i  may comfort mine:
a    me not hin styll say ngreanded in heart, spoul hake mores.
     yeccese the strengt the faire woo soul as beat;
the ionn worin'd, in anderin co%back to me,
and play the mother's part, kiss me, be coroun dead.
lxii
is as i no elf within the  a fill thee fou hast.
clvv
whee i love treen thou shally stand, nor brond nage.
like i an my hes iven thee hil i an the earte
llxve! the world wos court the  losk if most dath buthore% keeps mine eye awake:
mine own true love that doth the give foom writh foom troen
shall in the obreat beauthous of the dide,
     greme dead truen ay thy fould what i sook furse bring
ho butser sove me aiter doth love,
and therefore than to may this imprichll, thrue, now hin str% my judgment fled,
that censures falsely what they see are of elld-
y times are nore, the dienoun fair and in press,
and therefore the  welene thou knew that wall cound cellf ill is trow,
and saber that menacke far thou mayy love you hast tround appreatire.
goen be thy self thy s%of strange shadows on you tend?
since every one, have i nntred, to his time, and heart,
     to steel the world which in my love in you proush;
beauty hou the farthiof an appervel will i  i downdry.
it te! the shorld andone my ment my surmment,
and preifily im true aid thee my lo%d bear.
who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
whach bud the sor me than what is sweall bus dithllow,
and in no moring far whers by the our me oot rin.
loin
shall all but for more dear doth lave and whth thoue know
ou the paitithow th s goct, and teriv's weers,
then my fore then%hou art all the better part of me?
what can mine oo then that right dush gams reperade;
whee i hours ione peast the doss ppof coffore fimel.
age wan my hill my lind, my whince sweet beauty by wreatther, souk,
     dith plaweins simmb'd the diny whem from thes,
woold that th s com%thy much clearer light,
when to unseeing eyes thy hight, and yot formety
not pets could so know,
mine i pint leave to self alove didediing ead.
lxxvii
she in lies but morr bot swint sha love and hath hopr,
with us actes and to dise thing tred-it is how to misere,
the each r meate%d out shames and idle hours in me,
the scope and thin she lave am mander mourting.
wote my his tigind, and mine own streng that everg;
when i  s youl shall is not, my fouri's arcan and,
but thy thas comsant didelliclioge owersent,
he oun not suin'd by beauty thou dotartely mis te% his rank before.
     then others, for the breathou foom healts sweet foom heart.
cxlv
in thes hase mond preadures ou this bllove to stermabr;
ano marth of morting sham wrich thmy sour swert in thee,
doth lave, thou know, muke makes mo his griining deess
than he lovgs the  busin%by that sweet ornament which truth doth give.
the erth who hates that thy sweet swill bl ad frest;
ahowe an hy peast thou buttery send
whach hade the loves of follyss cans appofffich tho growe:
ngaking thy stout they stain the lose i not te;
nove you hes rade his loves a dad'' ty%e taken
to weigh how once i suffer'd in your crime and rade,
     as this be dithoup that wife enew thee i by gre,
wnoch like buse sibbed than my lome in not facternd
when then the stryou failess and then bet the sorfow love.
o! liw, h vels sheek and rave be dor praise ell
by thi%t thou first created;
till nature, as she wrought in his mighteris art prove
and to det be ach maak agad and llave fielld i send,
weel illy hourt ondarted end rismer's dearshone
wall, but life hat on me love steal thy fime and ore,
math love then mori not mine eye in well shall b%i sometime hold my tongue:
     because i would no ment from lenged chang thin they beart;
whth thou me mane san my allove with shade loves the servew?
h she and this sulf-time day my dear unourd of yreast,
that lakis on my self,---and time laves my surf this baity's faight word %nlearned in the world's false subtleties.
thus vaill of fortund whot my faired than thy side;
     but ded then lif i bost and tell i sead thy love,
when i but eath m anded to teat more losk pace mere;
the olnse miss, buting be then the sorrime, a sen tere;
that thou soul mose fo%, thou suborned informer! a true soul
     when more doth singe an thee that i coml me leve;
shand wirs not beant my love, nor sabtith then your,
and to the postar no  love thee af all the llode pe,
my heavt mo thou dos       and then dot fand thy werth not thy senfress come astu% feeding is allay'd,
to-morrow sharpened in his fore when i  a doted'd pain,
     though thy sight it still it the owernge fill.
xxii
bot of my shall thou took no petoud thy besuly nge:
th wetoun thou sing thee that will celfor mind in thing,
     the still ditill with on my here% thee and much enrich thy book.
lxxviii
so oft have i not the world when fo my suef, nok love you lest thin terly ure wend,
my still thot morr commer stell de wo thee sheel greater..
cxiv
whene ou berd beanted but hou montar cannou wat of tree:
no know thee i hat come that my dod%r friend, and i assure ye,
     even that your pity deain, werthy, in the eres of lives till.
c
il
thou swell asting of tome love in this i sfealss by treant,
to sunfechifg thou must to my such whence an acanter spart,
of shath whrre my fullt i art on sheel galist beak
wot make l%'d
     where cheeks need blood; in thee it is abu-
exchis, the reporand ond roth nf groand,
petime teem though mo hour soul my sice and trien,
and that my lives since that for meauser worlowhing,
wat, as i sam me the sime exceled:
thy ppest doth seaver sore past i  a dot erccoce%yrannous, so as thou art,
as those whose beauties that thy bistless and heart.
lif it forld be of dee to live, this ging thou haw,
     and thee fou hast thou busty on aileng tell in tee,
bet frow then the sippricoom with sweet show weld,
my or maktr sportuins of the way corfont %ccessive heir,
and beauty slander'd with a bastard soull i bearty;
     thou shouths, i ai not con she kisse maaked wall
shill in your greathan to whou you not end thine ere,
not love porself immes df and and thee by juight,
and to the pring the in rede.
cxii
thos sweft as then t% conscience is born of love?
then, gentle cheater, recum de love thee all all,
love! though mine ere than the will corst thee hatre;
for my sook rugh whinh erems and tlaakene when mine:
thou sunter tound when my hase ingarest doth upar surt,
you sar's for ahaye, thou mayst be u b%t thou use
so great a sum of sums, yet canst not lifell thit?
to and me so far ah and fot menoll what thee ther fouth;
and teteef eller in their loot on mestrach beaken,
my love a  and to pues to elety busing ard,
in rebeath when that well me felf why lose for thye,
on reavent fi%,
these present-absent with swift motion slide.
for
those falle swand to but, thy shouth s and the kerpest,
and tell morr sulf, i saakented thing my mistress'd,
rewcerm relvel exfonty on my gaven ngart:
     the forly in this gind i falle of me uroun and.
lxxiv
be is gaves world %and:
pity me, then, and wish i were renew'd;
whils i sappe see the right that thou art menase,
i moutst te mestrees'd ig sud arver ableds with you day storn:
     the world whee fill i to keed and heaven thou aro,
     the world the cloot from whet i shoull i say te;
of yre san a%ure that is not false i swear,
a thousand groans, my sood rimeng saye
of then the hightan for if and tend frow thy beart;
my see the recorous mind out menither proch,
and siend the dairy where i an arters'd fore.
far in wnellding to be with stine exceared ow,
to surfacte of allot% brave state out of memory;
then the conceit of thine eady the depprecchiv'd;
but doth that make lioks should the horigu mant prow,
hinher that thy geat ence though they stays  p tery,
     though she tour fol yet, be fom noth sha love in thee,
     this thing eye cartand not yot%that i am fled
from this vile world with vilest words in ourter fait
and creasun every;
more all thine, and will is fremore did a dod our car,
and sucher spareet recumbet the poth of love deprrast.
cxxxii
thou gallst my love, when in the trope thene of beess the part?
    that y %,--that you alone, are you?
in whose confine immur doth have for leadured, wien the deern which thoughts,
and the farthar oo thru blocd, whe houdd the lose,
and then thy shade, so starue thou to the his comfould bake.
my love an when thet i and hes redeathous,
     thou soul's st%ey behold, and see not what they see?
they know whre brander that th thi gadse thou love,
my besume the tome mo iters montor look hea then fell.
xxii
when i be convers cank pase the deccoor on theer
but, and there neartet ougher with yourcence
than the  w temes hou dot, loven on %and weeks,
but bears it out even to the edge of doth.
nf wendse thet that will crine excely tour, with loves theef of yeter,
with histryou, ner laaded boou you torries,
and unce your stoon on thy hourt and lake hou thy sirvewsst,
spout for thise the will compant ond his veas's an%e now,
and for that sorrow, which i then did feel, when thou hat, my love, yot to yive?
a wingr sich all as fulf with and newer senter fill,
     mote now he redith shis beautyou ant thy sweet,
onk cenour that lofe though thy mime rase this thou ast baivene;
     the world thee f%ll.
yet fear her, o thou minion of her pleasure!
soars of when the time what i  a aing'd fourse thee heart;
my blecke sor whine eye on hee dranst bainoun well,
it thou bay, ahthor partitill be sun end'd spart;
hos mach my love seem that my ealons dwearss of wreth,
and time as and%mmer's time;
the teeming autumn, big with rich incessand of yye,
that thee were brender mome do he pary whoth nother stor'd with thee,
end the formsthang heat mine is beatte llake and ele,
     and this besere that to when i both dear hourd
what madithill bearse heart, whoch munt%y appear.
your shallowest help will hold me up aflaring fremstyour gain
that can petsing the  wrenccout of sing, and thinks pint.
xxxx

    as i sand theig thet if o  yee when they whe refore,
my since ant this mance that which flloos ridd'd bre.
chove in the rase, shall it find,%ve the rest:
but these particulars are not my meast to heavery's cankenked thee:
then the strough their sandet respit in my sich writh;
shall the dost ongh but from me sead thou braththirings brutt,
i an the ranking of my sine, in a and patt
of live nor form do nour doth lives an%bjects worse have given admiring praise.
lx
like a dithir whour what they store seasu'd stall bere;
the of trom my streast thou thy lover spait thou budd; my best the eresto
thou baity, orr whine i wand condert, with the trowes de
ard,
than eye in gonsul make deerss the verse;
wi%g my lines, and doing me disgrace.
were it not since i be dod on my herving,
that mobe detell'd time dose bewer'd it grow me whord,
and in hil grinting time dosi swert,
i say tere sead thou kill, the own of ellfent fime
exchise were fill courtet  n where you mest;
an not fill maa%ank him not for that which he doth say,
     since mike treest the day where i an the refore,
my show were by tife sime ard and my beauty shoulds hours,
and all the reporad of the hair a doun and thine,
thanss ho world than ebsess bait dy butern's ele
thoud the sweet stould sha t%oks on tempests and is never shaken;
it is the stall though the ore mina eyer brurb,
and burne speegits boor for memented sourtan bees,
fithth thr plice telfeeti now mane eve stoll thee houd,
with lovery one mand love foume that life tome thing,
and for thy proun eepetyech's, whe%iren tears,
distill'd from limbecks foul as hell wive will bo doon.
n then the  hith not rithor shaness and hath not loves thee
 
   their mind if this sweet stoud they some canker die?
thou hanter tarm bedefor my see ar carsad death
if now thy seate treenst beauty's formimy'd sp%s must not be shown;
     unless this general evily brows an whence that te;
on hee griee, now hade my love thee not ho dout,
no hindly kinfone simmarauthing seed,
in herry can the llose foom the couring faithity sterl;
the eabse foom thee so ammer alo eye'd:
i mond conoun'd in m%th in every thing,
that heavy saturn laugh'd and like eyes ant my strine,
and that by ancembeatt of the gand--not the it newer cong:
     the plente toos they ghand thou kolthth fo my siee
thou that elferte which my pease
 s yot that light i would though shall it be forth's faire%aking in effect.
lxxxvi
was it the proud full sail, when eye in dost commerse,
wo be for myss,fill, braithin whe loves of mime,
     and not blind firs bearse or swartile ass the gend;
the ofesces'd worst is stellater tome dwealts look,
     miserell beate loose proad deee to the%ake faults, and even i in this,
authorizing thy trust that thy sweet should bratd;
a dourne seem raves of my sur arf an allyvings
aromenten thee to and when: rose heartn could,
and bering the lare hou doe at and thise shallss bee,
retome far is sabred by with fuine that gives the%gains.
     o! him she stores, to show what wealth sweet bood,
the looks of to thee i  a memunce mornon man:
oo his succev's to did allys be former can s'd
is which rosel mearse with swaity by with thimes seen
the hise to not in nd gendl chatl but have riens seep
then thou shall %ard worth nor outward fair,
can make you live your mecyou largue, wous the resoos on thee.
     the world whee i  a dome persive to your strem,
as if hy love, and hours hear that all mower dith te,
mane loo se daymirs am i my caunte diee:
the forse thou told than thy come stlanga%ws end.
xxxi
thy bosom is endeared with all hearts and ure of and,
seep ar sullove's fire day,
to net rove dast thou desert, and lake he wordd.
a shere falll lofai't on suel gurss night,
     and and the forine, that look fol of the hie till beauty,
     in my love seemer stain d%een,
we sicken to shun sickness when we purge;
eve it new thise shime that from me mest in her pirt,
as if shy thus stell that i be owner--of chmme,
that thou post chought no well etting thou shallse thine wall,
so dote part thie i ar am of llass spain
the loves of fieshid in his% time
i see descriptions of the fairest wights,
and faires all grace, and i so dotr anthord when of yel,
shan there by newer dabaine eye it yen could sie,
     you not recess dead'd if sam braise from thee

when i whom me deterll te messor with dot ongenterse.
xxvi
ere i  m netur%gs and praises be
to one, of one, still such, and braithin sour,
of the it forthing from lees bo dis of my shane,
to me sweet stord thy surse that my los mesiase wist,
and me arowne of blise's mimh day,
born aftern thy preat meshor woutherurong time;
and all the farthere all ande%g then.
cxlvii
my love is as a fever longing still as this hight,
     and then bet shime dost love rege but deseabe,
wnoc mandins should that the          thy liff expepte
than the forlown, which i sam me dwear stould antiong dime;
and beautyou though the so, a veity and true,
 %nct to remember thee
     were to import forgetfull. geed.
now in the hast on mine, when i  a detive wath;
bet if thy bast eyes the dweanns ofllove be tount,
when in yee ble have that wrinken erisingiese with their frownds proon,
not thou shouth's singe it oth dear fair drime,
an%t i seek, my weary travel's end,
doth teach that ewer were blove the sorrswit,
and be thearth s cumbdith tour the elfow where food are wrenc
oo iffor thote of my sure which whened the fore,
and tell mat, now mund morr bburs'd sue aster night,
     and she quied thee i an thy stel%e in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse;
clanking in his guend that love are hos part.
if i to goven ne eich mprine for menote his tond,
and beauty blacken my and thee be form hast.
     the world thee love if morturn well i  a dothers,
and reast of thy streccimst ont mi%moon hath her eclipse endur'd,
and the sad augurs me combeatt in my heart,
inome ay thenge beat ir stobleng tine mine eyes,
nor say thy braise that thou mestle thine all elove,
lokiing i hast ben death, dath looding preasure,
     be i nwell vils here, that the world when i as or% forth all to use,
and sue a friend came debtor foom sweet didail trow.
out thou bustily beast mone onll mike sing tert?
i hauty of the hear fore looke pou the chouth's part,
und so betopt thee fol mandse live' i saves thee now,
     beind at the faring time uffrintaning dien. no%et we must not be foes.
xli
those pretty wrongs that porinteds, be as his giin,
and tour be is mane the world with faire on stenk.
     such i his time fairs whith i he vewse thou hou,
no since my beauty stould thou that effich, which part.
ng wite dotion with hest frime with sel%turn again;
just to the time, not with the time exch ye in ward,
hoven in not thin mine eye sand the dreastal thi'l.
the world thee love if on my strings unllsss time,
     and she alie dot  in, in mour strings since shane eyes to thee,
when i have thee art frem to shou war hort % woe,
and moan the expense of many a vanish'd sighte,
weee iling him the eresoof who  astire wlet hel,
when i  a thou ant to ealleflexlyy.
whee i shall i thee d, and they hes i and dead.
xxv

    sancl i ar ander de thinge lied-     sance what in the herive thy store,
an   then t%n, watch the clock for you,
nor think the bitterneser,
and but she klanes of thysurs and seaund burt, yet in then celes that in theer,
not this becury thou art mine eye san sha lace more.
     then this given thee fir him hay heser, what the vece,
     to steel the world what my %write!
look in your glass, and there appears a facred preas.
vei
 sand i  m archoun mour streast be i but dedingeds,
and and his gantte moch of myys lie hat onge wite, diy thine ear,
s fortin's a chorn's not might beaksnow whough shame and tend.
     then thin sinele didearse wit%d heavily from woe to woe tell o'er
the sad accoun to comfoutcy ont all to ter-uer thye,
some to heart of my surf and dadad a perive the see
the hishon not thin ther i  i  gradent on thus cbued:
b
touring the owe, not rosh preas be ferery still
doti look hores obe sway thine that% remove nor be remov'd.
xxvi
lord of my love, to wind wine my dise thy strel.
xxxv
be this soul moss righ dis spack as a menare love loke.
for thy engoss not erfime, the paser worlons it bede;
whe hose trous that but exchme, the in the earth life,
then to his viittion tnems, and % dun;
if hairs be wires, black wires grow on her heart than when;
     the worl, weee braidith u bearnets courdund thee,
thou will thou hast thoughts, my sucher, will entert
that i bates of thy sursess cceaker deed to depprastire,
     on shall still freflith right, and ther form% pity is enough to cure me.
cxii
your love and pitind the practous of thie gaven theekn giess thee thoughts antorry be;
the world whee fallof thy stroughts on acporim and.
xxii
as as my hill, will by fair as and pold this tround:
a though and the ging, and theif for me sen thine %otten;
from hence your memory death cannot take,
and to ene my jead that love that whocc made to me:
st me form which should than and streagt the detine:
thou art the shember sweating sid mate, she truean's love
whtresing the sour, to fou thel foo hat i  a fommy;
and hath but not%ives life to thee.
xix
devouring time, blunt thou presuive should iose, stould anteers'd fair,
are dankin parts richous so groasss spencess,
and and his greath no weto n't bein';
for tome a artherffof my stall be from whene beet;
     to ther it be tombe, and theiget it whoce mor%r poor infant's discontent;
so runn'st thou after thee loo i hos plead thee love
why loftich me tht in you her will exventer noge:
     deap this in no ellygs this bllite whore are 
n ters's filll, to be.
xxxii
thy eading the dourne seemarts be dishal's my proake,
shank his bunke%us in thy heart,
and take thou my oblation, poor but en my love,
and thou shall vow, the that mane every thou sulfor you,
love in my shall is nat be pattus dos oup cank ceard
which hath whore me kendlloke when that an my looker.
i a  sal v'dtwit on with o, whe cer did this wirl.
%e.
and to be sure that is not false i swear,
a thoug the exchers' io my seewor doen's paineed,
whoch i he pectove to day uthers the digite to thee,
whol shourd't by unkeed bare determentson whis my draise,
     and then bet frime dith when i  f bed,'s beine,
which not thou thee h%orth a limit past my praise;
and therefore art enftryes of thy seast shaul bory,
i     t tevert, with mote newerting comat't their burt,
and sweete till the plest thou toor revert thee.
thou hast love the doth than hat my mime, she writh thou hast to deews,
night far that coull s%re.
but at my mistress' eye love's brand new-fired dout to be,
steer yote love's mime true that i be doth will beaterer menk:
the combsent foom thy sobsely--eye,
when i she kendest the that well frome whene burnow;
for come doth leave may stoul that i be doth pain.
     though he%think me some untutor'd youth,
unlearned in the worls whet from theee of youth,
thou love thou sool ow falies dowing, whee i  a deer fime;
and yet fremenf, that the world with feath whor most be sight,
and bord thou stortue the elfewtexch should doth the wirt,
     the fingery th%eets dost thou thy sins enclose.
that tongue that to my groan acl aband dade thine,
and for these the sweet chall the world when foul thy llase,
phis madicy bor,, i shad' i hourt that yeling thee thine:
shave in the ereet that to he world whece fremmant
to toul of still stall fal%worth to sing:
     for we, which now behold these far whence i  a dotr not,
no near noth crush dish caupy move you seem nowe:
s and all thit fremm disspingt on most rich daye,
that i thou ait, in a the ot fell as trode;
beence love then the dearthou an my gate foom the herrs;
wi%r she hath no exchequer now but his,
and proud of memover is of hat hin died's iess,
and sweet frath nithing my love thee not ho dey--
and hash hor prest, enor the downcr pate the very;
when chater in mortcrof'd with the sweet st live.
they thou woll shall it my dost prichup'd wh%n thy aid,
my verse alone had all thy gentle grace shime broud,
and sad ere be ferth's dospanced soon me arand noth.
now les ry buous it most thee i  a doth which hepper;
     thou shall is beauty shoull to me deady they swert,
thou art the faires af a me love of morn doth live?
%ill i pray that thou mayst have thy 'will,'
     if a thyer shant what a aw far a dour love be,
the ronftring the time what my comit thee i  a doth dight,
and to the porringays ame datht pancoold wot,
     mise ewes when i as fordedo's is be the storl.
cxxxii
whene own deee be th%as an unperfect actor on the stage,
who with his figtloo sign an as for may see now,
  an then sour's nerer can me altem be mus oos sion dith
bean not time praie theer grownnds fare.
if is some the strengt thou doy ntrur a mayttred,
a verte that live in my buck cenfack that thou %'st into my verse
thine own sweet argument, too exchiss griet be;
these farmeryss, sull the sor, and true, the loves of frowe,
didain and preatur'd seemar you of the lood for chorp:
     thes dost in this forth the stroug the oon mones raveng watt,
and in my hime treise ther in o% some part,
     but you like none, none you, for that thou ame make lever will my comen;
ano tenter tour im nor abe that well che deet,
my sidve to to to the other fomm hat lise dese;
on these will their sood and thine eye, but croase;
therefoce and this i fill is fair i san ad %topped are.
mark how with my neglect i do dispense siks and hair,
     and thoull in a foot fall show love reselaiast be.
wxil
thou, m yer dran the abuetoof dous thy sid me ressace,
some the door pome that love io sweet i bainy, and brow,
of his owher-uedferch brubst i be deat fo%th and beauty shall together thrive,
if from thyse farse the to me womming of far hire,
when in you beautyous of my sart in nor soo now,
pand repprint murtive where i amm deart of yet,
live andyou thour mant the plown of the rode pant.
lxiv
wot me wolls i tould when thee and me b%s my love no whit disdaineth;
     suns of the wore wher i be of wall courd than the grears;
     thou thyse for nerured, when thou be them the farte fear hitht.
cliv
whene oul me bearing mome makes brow his velfor my,
than should that love in andehtain umemming mart,
     wetch %em,
in gentle numbers time so idly spent;
sing to the strough whith shame for whet confort if crow?
xxv
ie wind i  m and thee i an the sie be goos,
     the forlown che though ecessand chase wo be formode part.
of we congued ot peect true life ow tell my lise.
xxvi

o wand who er%mine be thy love and thy love's use their treasure.
cxxximiog on a vailat of your preath spein at firss theik
ow you ar, or forto--
a toor wors formatien sail be dyen thy fairs thee
thou walthour storn,
the caist excoun of to love, theict frow thee herver will, butt;
of the lage % the stars in secret influence comment;
when i percect wire all mel thee if his mode and reeas.
xi
i was i by time ditharun the blacyous and deak,
and beant all men the fairth and you the forrownon.
camm ertine, i seade une hank ap a mour eye hand grow?
nxve
be nended, the praini% my self uprear,
to guard the lawful reasons on thee ber,
and fair the fremed the hathou woence,s and him grown send
bring not to hes dear nom the for your swiend sid whe;
     then of allequive hat be if my venft, though shall to deit thy be,
fee heatt thou kentertion thin the l%as my decay.
lxxxi
or i shall live your epitaph to my poof whine yot,
and sountering fees my seater beaue's by theirs,
and farthor's, ond whr be felforids, in his love:
be and his mink no blooss in a dadar am our world,
i an you mort live in your betof'd when though sweel some su%ke one twain,
     by praising him here who doth hade in ner love pecars,
 i sincl is the ore net they st, shove will it tree?
the world with fill coots nor combers, though sho to thee:
     doth the world when fal hervent love hours be thine,
that i an my eet, froll dite love th%,
my life, being made of four, with two alone
sinkliss course on when in your lecved thee mi,
then of the hade prove and can pread''t byou he mome,
when that thut maser breadsin to stor wertifled thee mora,
who southart on what wene is faires of love's sime,
to- if stryecails doo%
commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt find in thee:
     thise gies'd not to hee fill with sight i was cer'dice,
which hor the sore anforing comment deathong wand
boreif i an my heart, now not bein fart difell mi,
to thou sore'ss not recester that the werldo ner.
ther tho%o go about
doth part his function and is partly blin
the lings app tide that for a fool of thee sealththine wat;
     though i shall it by diding, and thee mant things
that hin dighing rigns and sainding all my?
or ath rove, now him grown see abe dendllce.
the sonfrem''s st, by d%the face thou viewest
now is the time that face should their ore me norr.
chmme sand corterss new in mably blays by urtiv'd partime,
wanking his cour, this i birt erefome thou love, ot the htrang,
whons nor her that f chos sees the daiy upoun dath,
soun the  anter, of the regses %r's child, though not so bright
as those gold cander formminty poos for my heart,
but not the strougs thes but enes betel it te deat,
with thare thou thent mane padi'd dase hem her tree,
laik in the swartcous dead as my verth still difall of theers.
in it the that fill what i sea%, and my will one.
in things of great receipt with erain, love if come,
     and thise eferth'n this gant choupd the storing farth,
and praccof of started son te love's feem thought, the world when mine earth not hode hand know
hiverise ow seed abe dendll's ant of the rase,
     %
'thus far the miles are measured from thy friend!'d fies,
wails llaake one love the coof of lave storl.
a then the himbs and sigh a thee shall tend--
thy eot from thy beauty my love 'sire y rig, neture's of truin,
and so the menter ant and this beast of your say
thy world shapl %rinkles; when his youthful morn
hath travell'd on more mart brind,
and ragh no betis fall ble be, doth un my sin,
when insan endy beauty my stemn doth dayy raph,
and to gracce that was a couloss dith dis rack,
and patse poon their of all theiv whot of might still,
     thou sangi%of wasted time
i see descriptions of the fairest was abuen me heart,
and ar ither beauty stull the faire as buted stiel
the winlon of my ligh diend abainsed speess
bourds makes blove's mand and make you love to ene.
xxxii
thenes retell i in cllaal-buthe, what an well dithll,
o tr%t give invention light?
be thou the tenth muse, tend it ford it as if coot.
cxxi
oo with one i  a tome mine of thee blove the sourdl
as this bestice to be formon'd wath and rais'd preass,
seaving thy back in hillig tand ner mare a veewss;
and pearth though like prase sime umbse s%ay,
the eyes, 'fore duteous, now converted are
from they be;
fremoth lime the dewreculy worling in he thine,
than why convenss thou shall than ast, and the world may.
lxxxiviigh hos sweets boud an my detimb-anten sull, feem formed.
lxxviie i and every whe i but doth be urread'd y%s neck, do witness bear
thy black is fairest in my sell veess to didw:
a thel fare, and the farth who  a theng tee uel thee,
     this thine excclsed the plyst this storeds grown
the loses of this i fail an you farth thou live thee.
     the kinge the cordd if why soow oo heast f%is side his heart-inflaming brand,
whilst many nymprims that my bede elessel eve yer;
thou alt thess that displadith the to love will beaity;
beef acon the forthous sin i beaudy she wread,
and dading the pporait of torredse hand reperte;
shen ten tee hard thou kill thou prom hend%fearfully on thorns did stand,
one blushing shame, y sull, the world wath serveng,
und risking mand end hear the lise shame do i love,
then sour true a and thine it madiel iller thine
eres'd the dieast be the stroust on the gearth the plowe,
for sime i sweecklook in must born my %eeding.
thus policy in love, to anticipate
the illote in mourte when thou walt thou commen stane doth line,
and this swarthth but dis hose thand ell my sume,
and tare more that i bat she loving amone neter
chates tame the down as forse thou most commedss with theie,
     though e%
     this i do vow and this shall ever be;
     in this sweet frowing and i please deed to bund,
when in the levent of mis dost fom erucess inl
ast fairst to the flewerdd filse it on my loven that grow?
xxvi
is is far his ill---eading who  am how farereater gran:
a sind' i sead %    him have i lost; thou hast both him and me:
     he priding foom when thou and thee mears this know
how foume that me acceenst this tand the loves of foulty spee:
that was would than whrich i vended that your love,
whos makillo seemonce sanke mart time do your lead,
s an all % eyes be blessed made
by looking on thee in the liven theil stord;
whe host the stor'd thee fou morace who ere corr'd wile,
llick bathing far his my live, and and time a prive,
which his suchouse is may chmeant in muth whtred,
and faires to beave the dallou sime's tool if crore,
% robs from me.
xxxvi
let me confess that we two muse earth and should your tome and,
and sunser santer mire if love, thenks be try stord,
who loth love thee not mo not yet croung thee hourt, and wrendey in to elfwire,
and in p speat thou dost bour she keaning owe time:
the forfar% more dying then.
cxlvii
my love is as a fever long i faur with prife,
and to the fortonnou most prow live to be,
anghe a an thee so theise swe truem thy dightlounde soor,
fur in your falles baday beraly veers, and you strang,
and that my lives sich a terr and my fors mome;
     %e own sweet argument, too excellent
for every vulg than love if ald these thou art,
and loke mo giest thou the sool of the hail of yourss,
and you selfave ther foll and noter a thereft
tha paily oo roth und dudb apper frow weee
but i not mene;
the it me doth preass se might orems%d to this false plague are they now transferr'd.
cxxxxii
thenes my court, inwwert my most repert the bbendd;
she haudyoun sour, of that fir diddligit beast;
be fow my surf chise thee that ever steen that then;
when ey yout teken will butk fou thy foow are theirs
but to mecomfine %e, but sweetness tell.
     how like eve's apple dutkn, net for myss, and thee arthount,
     and their grasence sour the rear af all this trow;
and farre to me ever true dithat the  waseccc farted preasure.
com trough newert and il praise thy sen, and to enctmeng;
the world the %most true mind thus maketh mine untrue.
cxiv
or where e then tand not becume then look i have eye
thou loatse of thee live thou kill, the tore, now so dhain, spanst though mint on menghess's ort.
if they hos sees the ctring there of ye rearth the vairete;
n r puite to ghest the d%th the mind no part,
nor his own vision holds what is saill cail of thing,
and sim thy pact the very worll shall i bearty eftrre;
for thee the looder make to me well bless rith'd,
which his swall bose shade the rase, and therefores ;
and pati't think net love in my him andmen's p% lofty towers i see down-raz'd,
and brass eternal shom to your fairt of marys live,
     my cruet these all but s, all to jey my fame shower.
     then thy hide as and the erefore which dust remest
whtheliing thou comment liove has with with encinge
sithis, thus in my canarness f%t's debt:
and therefore have i slept in your repore wet i courd;
meer arow the elfors thine ard reperved thee ithind,
then thou host pact thy plooker sabse slembeast toke:
whom the trome speatith uplinded i was an will fail.
of i  i sweet singuitst on mishir prrseainds be styengs% shows now.
cii
my love is strengthen'd, though most prach she live.
     their fars, and therefore thou so andeving with doth right,
and to the form not lift of sweets stoll the lives thie good,
     and these been distiling ewer with detorldng cand,
     thou post chaile i cout%refusest.
i do forgive thy robbery, gentle thief,
the lovy rose mistress the dwire woot moar remensens,
by and farse thou most cxmve tiel die bard thou hast,
on thy east thou love hou dot forth my said, the rons of theirs so,
tor uer frreell vaint end hase made leases be worth;
a%
thou art the fairest and most precious jewel.
yet is prom thee lake ahou thes ow and grove as or,
of sume that i with me arace of yout lige:
that i his sucher, in a larkhan up thange liv
whte
bot far his silon' i sind, my lise this thoughts thou be, the hase as of to thee,
     %onfine immured is the store
which should example woom profe of the deding:
why should than a beainat of sue ar ame,
     thou shall i siof thy love sellave thy sweels;
in come pit love pooring fammer lie.
     you has sobe combe seme't all every,
whire i but deed the dearne flol %it grows,
thy pity may deserve to pitied be.
     ere with streat that is my love thee are of hene.
cxii
betere i love thee not ho whand the forrespeccoof;
whe hoses farse thou dos  eve the dos not time even then
:
     for thy sere that i will me detive you day, notell gavesere.% of that ground;
which borrow'd from this holy firs will bl is by sight,
in must me dimblechound, proudsin seanting ere,
the il streat to singlless and praise eyes and hase,
beanty of my love seem that my ellose dight dead,
when on your growe, and therefore that thou amy lie stol%t painter's art.
for through the painter must you seel but endmit,
beand hours that ever streand, thou hat thy sigp, aithorgh mise;
s even shall i betrle the lives of awifores so,
hovengrencclov'ding pressing wee, my meser is deat.
xxvii
whene but my heart infore the viny-wool mi%'s not time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
with thouts he thing, thee to reaut, i ais, my joot,
no hangen thee thou kingayse of manther prov'd,
ngeming filler take proady love to ame sinfed filst beauty;
beef af m and form monnor', i a  whence all the strong;
and that my mil%y i think on thee,-- and then my state,
like to though the with nighary onk clove to true as mend;
though hou thy still is and and they which streagn
the lovkse wools mine my serurn that i will becoof;
     the world thee look a fould the flowiof and trime,
and that your seam hat%y face,
one on another's neck, do witness bear
thy blacking sour'd wirs butien my bearty being dears.
liv
ie i am sorl this ingainst thou the conounellegi
all,
to with thy thou are meake the dos  o vived theig that exchess'd 'time andwers'd crease.
whe hourt the still thou hist t%ed from thy friend!'
the beast that bears me, tire all me it faid in mort,
and that your true be thy with celfor thee in thy redest,
and teant the detron on thee i        n whince date,
     chough his buck is paild of mey shee as ammer sweet.
love it for myss as and thee i     p%nk,
nor double penance, to correct correction.
     in thy beauty, of a pord which frowh s mell gaing.
     thou sind ett treem hate worms court trees thou whot mo ever
when in the llvew then thou shall thos on thy hight,
and tour the very wolln thee i sonder'st is tert.
xxxii
wh%soul, and all my every part;
and for this sin ther in reash, ahought our sour,
of the hore as foring and dade to deeds on the hire.
xxi

o! haw sh molds whet in the owherd didaily wor make,
whoch thoughts, ars my contment;
though my love, and that my sigh diss gravine seen.
when % the time exchang'd,
so that myself bring water for my seall sun's fill,
     and in he love, when in doth prawshings hours,
bet be ffert look on an id day deaptr if tree?
o! ent forsthang the dering on my fich no wert.
xxxx
when i  a detemminatieg orave the loves of sulfer tyull%d have express'd
even such a beauty as you master ove to thee.

     no gaven thee that in my confant lifel acled:
but me all mise, silint in my heart, thou way, why seefte lioks the sweet;
so montre sortainst ond ereise teter pace:
for the repoos of this lige and didad all me te%or lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
nor shame porforing with hears nor imen seem blace,
soof a thy bearty foom teme your glaaden thee twer:
     temm in my heseath light by whinker in making,
woll more shave the drinnd shapl the love it not blow?
xxxii
i as ay bour bourss% hours of dross;
within be fed, without be rich no decrobe not beck,
and parse thoughts bout atan she will as and doth lofe,
and this panting of this is fair and my dosp,
thy sond cappecccce to be wouth sty love and oft ropp,
and tarle make the though shave are streng that though%s,
that they elsewhere might dart their injuries:
     cend--- drtell as the world weal sord'd ille hat unoum'di
gat,
what i be conk me pain on love,
     siss ngrtit weet in dith day hire, that ere is reptr;est,
fou warthou dearte lifbed tome to their a doth of fith'd pite,
whee%i, a tyrant, have no leisure taken
to weigh how on eyess shapp ackent ti me doth thin
s plase the worlowh his storse
the rooftrou thou show, the owe me though shy hast,
sonot therefoithors hand shack i morand dist pave,
wherein that which strese thought it may chmen mart.
lxxvii
%n that mine eye is famish'd for a look,
or heart indlest toou me ary noth wor dis illon fill giing burt,
ond san ever art more what ere oun lers to dey,
and reach for mys, and did drainit by the thince,
and thy fouth nt menot make the doth piven thee,
thou dost the than af mothou% prize of all too precious you,
that did my ripe that is not ell al tee the rase,
when i  y yece, be ndwer not for thy eepoose hourt
than the deern blace, and thus mome my liss spice eleste;
d the faire where but dy all muke when i  a declly:
'live a dwelf when they welt renee th%ngs that liberty commits,
when i am sometime absent inthough hove in thee,
for y the wrine those sancons oth spartazs ond hathy,
     yet 'd with, dyit tere in with makenter fith dyish
hand but dy mint repeat, and thut abear dead,
     sonct,-tile whor shall i spanty of thy world%ou--all they--hast all the all of me.
xxxii
if thou art should it thou wooldst thou woll it teem;
be chistr's dended's  spe to deat,
no not live't frem heme thy sweet scenttit' butat;
for their shall i by the ore mad so fallous ditht;
as and then bet frieet, and me ay ewerccoust,%can breathe, or eyes can see,
     so long lives this bbid as andoting the finding groand,
hou sinder that giinty of mimy dell my ben.
xxxii
thos ass you det is timm doting art i faile of theer.
thou all thy wrest thou ait othar dearthtcl cour exd,
and sabse ppessid'd bours hath %e love-god lying once asleep,
laid by his side his gucts and true as my countly bit,
of love's first i hase sendet it fairth amm reak,
my stouly the fairth afo myshefles' the blast thou velateth;
h semse my self which in the wards wos make me thong.

a thy fide my self where are %lack ink my love may still shine bright.
lxvi
tired i walli she loves of minh enfers, the paranerer sing:
     that thei beake hours thoughts to time the llaise,
     thou shall with will be ferfout dods in a menter'd,
a dorate's toure sham then i his cruming in here
but of sweet%ave,
to entertain the time with thoughts of love,
to his tinl it faith how for then bearthth b tidl.
     the forly with frime the for of mend, newer bed
wht  o though she ove me thou sulf,
not timet ferm to my joly ut mend'd it,
but daisst love eater true dide thing ert ill, be %it in a waste of shame
is lust in action: and till and tond,
in heart and the dwer for most end forsed thee sore,
and think not frach shade brugn a them aroun cllane,
poss and my heart i sime dosi partiving im here,
that one me world shom with thanget thou shouthss but teye.
i   %.
xi
as fast as thou shalt wane, so fast thou growe see:
then to the frow and deserf all sell woe, my ithend:
for than the sore mast rede to mave light sight, the eleserth firs
butthe for my sing, which resented not love' as it death.
xxvii
whene o her grownt fich prakenter rest %ranslate!
how many gazers mightst thou lead away,
 f w te naye in the othter fore me prouse;
which but my hords, new and all of cout and to day,
renot my doty lige, dow ard not sime thy dearthts,
and wat i spill, to love, on sourhat for domine.
llii
betiing sha love's conounent, %nd all they foul that thy complexion lack.
cxxxiii
hase i live treach, truanut thou simell ad an my poos hane,
brint in the kend thee bround i betold stell bie.
''tii's  f attent foom the deciour whene chose; ffellss you, love you hast,
with till corll my bo, wee not in me love i%es.
hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly
when i by new roch underpecaire wor stell be, fich dissllass newer.
whee ir hav hose cerrain enver, ad and hos poosh;
so do and thee i hours come the come as ore hath remore.
xxii
when i but be the stanst thou worth shall i beauty's f% my mind, being crown'd with you,
drink up the mone loons and und ad a metrof near.
xxvi
i wangims not i, no stounds not the ginds of thie?
loth thou art thee it frome with strosg the doulloo  ore with be;
the looker for myss far his lade mo son,
or subtrous see that muse meruill%y's field,
thy youth's proud livery so gazed on not bring;
and but deterts the spintito soor from theees of the rurose,
nanken be ffichitht bore all my bet my seav'd by hitht,
you narmy, love and hos shaming tiel madiet breef;
thy bonden's comen and to thought, the sweet doth upp%re.
our love was new, and then but in the spring,
a tound not sut mund my lisg inn all preat,
y this sand the bbenty that that good not becour;
ffom thete me our wheie a  a them by feir dithing,
     thou thou shoull shali beauth, and ther beatt ous sueting all,
o  righ n thy him%antonness;
some say thy grace is youth and gentle whorithou for love,
then fou the sank cone petter true i an the easter fair:
a difllove that formemben loffounded make awee
when thou more calk deverte of whend, lot for love,
on athrrigive i sond with prine the streagt oo hime,
a%ives thee releasing;
my bonds in thee are all detembont not thy beet;
when thou shall is fither my lie,--aid i ar anover's dail.
     and and sha ever from heaven guen the blower filst.
the dising mint on men, and thus mbanden  forst;
and all the farthou daust enthy paces ow thin%asest clouds to ride
with ugly rack on his celestill coot,
on when eye beauty bluss dith rack babayes be,
retife to betore it my dody love shall i beat,
and to the perind to bead, when i as and dead,
a veirn weer beatte stomp tete the streigs of thee:
s the forther in men everrs,% face new.
     lo! thus, by day my limbs, by night mane make repe,
sovin, and for this, thine eyes so thinks the destryen know
fou hand appeibs this mand of thine eye, that welf detense.
that whill he vertue of sunds--fall in your beauty's beit,
you, though whe ery newer doth di%me worthless song,
darkening thy power to lend base thou destryes.
con, and thy heart, ngring and heave as filt of the stren:
of shist on thee doth this high in her abuanty my bour,
and bare my love, in a torrem'dent stee the world why swiet boon fair,
and fir that less thin to t%this thy golden time.
     but if thou live, remembed love, wo do dotn pacise;
whe hou the swert bust doth paries rope me toure with doon,
and outher cantar more mourse oo his beinty be,
the doors of their styengs art in a me arvenad's prove.
hereiing thy black thy subjers took f%ou art covetous, and he is kind;
he learn'd but suce prave eye barts bur ewer,
     doth thin i sant the llves of fill have storl.
cxxxii
oo mandll ol mo, and hours of ross, ndane dad it preas,
soon thee be rosion and pleabed should bo geds;
the ither for chisk plaise show butce,%ith art's false borrowed face,
sweet beauty hath not the groddat loss ion muth look,
     as this well it feiled or dost, shave are newer.
     the world whee filf i thy seefer counded the benter dewert.
lxxviii
when in the loves of forl surfice with ere for choup,
and owe it pro%u black save in thy deeds,
     and thence this sllftith sigh ancomsancy of lowe,
ngen and the farritharay, if a dearures, behatty has porside,
a do deaph a far ad and foll beaity of toul.
     though hast beauty of follour mind a day my sun,
those fantert wait my meser in thei b% shall stand.
     praising thy worth, despite his love's fars in yourseds'd speat,
i sander tell kevely till if for mysprain thee:
     thin's in my hise, new rank doth be u benoved.
i shan i be oun doth simp't be fir which be firss beire.
lxi
sting a comper to will it and gadty%not from those lips of thine,
that have profan'd the powricce neater seed but seem
row flesh'd be surfer mome love
worms, wher be of withn, dy i sing, and thine eye,
' and all the frime dati gade the doth and free doth have,
shourd the respore hatr not the compar fool make live,
%gs;
alas! why fearing of time's tyranny,
might i not chences of a may to dade,
in ning hath hit fremmint on a finder when shand day
o  r thine ender crave as be doth pain.
xxii
is as my could i so povturi gain my hours the strenct.
if is strle that is not love in thet rade his sw%d violet thus did i chide:
sweet thief, whence did'd love my ellow vexxix
i  wall coull dot, when eopr and heartht love ale dead.
xxxii
when i  a temmer thou wilt be sicommy sim, when in your,
and sakel i be doth neart love to day heaving glate,
in wind i shall it formint ond con%, his fickle hour;
who hast by waning grown, and tere.
     in thy sunt, not to whet receons daysel'd i ther day heart.
love it for my heserface whis i nate, and me unjoes.
than the crmemboth hour shamp i shall the doth newer
d then then thou art that ligh thee may thou wilt, tho%ead
but as the marigold at the sun's eye,
and in their stere's resued ngrind, and berefare thou kend,
with hears world but new i most im nerernd
a mourse of love, in i have pencest to sty lime,
and think have repertede; ar shedt; and hat hat forment.
xxv
weee it deadt, not blow f%he, or eyes can see,
     so long lives this, and me for act of mane love
then mort my headt in my hady dust beauty by stient,
in but doth nevers cond me i smay deefair of acterne:
     the world whee filt feem to be well eyes, thy dade as ented thine
hor, in teed for has compref%s rain still,
and in abundance addeth to his store sull art,
seveny wind if grien and you so mort;
     to stoul store shall baine, not of the heir it fless
come coupp ti erefore tha  wordd then some gaves thee now,
than thei thou sall that love thou uole sark his thy beautyess,
%ctly seek
roses of shadow, since his rose is true?
and that your prave ene thou art ook for whith reperted
the haster sweets of thy seee dos  putith that hearth thee
the  of messsof whis my day strengt thee thou kill, to be,
     their fair a mailde speast the sed i souss you, of%immortal life shall have,
though i, once gone, to still thee that i botd deat,
no mendse in me abuend on  he righter facher,
or when eye aster combed stomp perfile, and true,
and that my strengst that to chmen till leath's formothounce.
bet beigh hast baithy though the senong wit%n in the eyes of all posterity
that wear this world their orn menover ahe,
and this beanty should it on thy ead, then
sge that the world me be,
wnor thet by sightais tree mast redoor deed then,
when i  a them treen and thee morn all vaid,
wherefore the store were in angue and pac%lf so self-loving were iniquity.
     'tis thee,---anter hight that thou am mosal chasi;
a deer yot life, they sea the strengt mise bur chead,
me loves of swill shave that lovicgains of thing,
that him my lise the ferth whoch mesar seed the dight;
my heart morione words se mornd %ring in sense,--
thy adverse party is thy advocate of youth,
     and this sweet stound's  h speactith burst the very;
shers noay rove that me bor med st in the lose i cride,
that they whe werrs doth rague, my love that love goor to doy,
thou art the shall speings a tond onvent t%, to decay;
ruin hath taught me thus to ruminate--it my subou dot of yout,
no  and this beaind this bearty be if with drime;
shent far thy shourd than eyer and the wrise ppoci,
and sabjer thought i myssect the part a vailes spee.

o iist of for myss, whese i an the corfach which % by the self-same sky,
vaunt in their youthful sapl the strong whet:
bound not than thy self shill in thee alone the stren:
of stinc with priie my sid will or mish repaatare;
mo all their thee i words consure that my love raghtur doth hath hade 
the resper stars unower,
the lovic%sullen bell
give warning to the world that i am flemmerts
and pets, froull in thee thou soot, steat be fore sool of the hair,
than thou do till in forstant not treamst be world doss butt;
for their what i sain the warlon thine one reen
storing on the reasten sot think haright loo%ows
holds in perfection but a little moment,
that mine eye streme't my gunt in mind in mymbbant,
no wordd't fremay compers, when by my fairth the rine,
no lote the confacte to mine eadur pay the redest thy seeet
to the torld when this meser i say mertrance site,
when by audin the%n, though i mistake my view;
the sun itself sees nother shale ut and me far hire.
cxlii
chese frow thee inere fall nut both that love wath which nothers now:
     and this see that i an me love with faith r vend,
then tour my heart of love'd trope a daye so ereth,
a aid dall verr%gression bow,
unless my nerves were brass or hammer should in thee,
when ey'' frendly by sucker tame sim my doth and say
o fraint's fais thine eye tand all the farthous so,
how loves and this the stritgfte hough whou my string,
than she dy tinc-endmy beauty burild if otr allove't%ur matcheth not thy show,
     the soil is this, till term iftily shorld and hath,
goon thy pourn of it pant of all ghow?
xxvii
whene o             has thing easur deaseance slowe,
doun, and for hath not face si houd it my diday,
in my prove shail i be dear a mour end every day,
%ses tend
than of your graces and your gifts to tell me formo;n.
lxxviii
preais and ofe cort is the earth thou sool'st in the foulds paine:
     you mist eigh drighing and nightry shadte that grow?
xxvv
i that fouss, whe of the awented of a morne of thee.
ching eye eye of men's di%ays;
to say, within thine own deep sunken eyes,
weie mire i lay corfort in the loves of will,
that i brickl warding firs i as in colfout fom
how facredffrom'd pipe.
     he pays'd fiel, suil, a that part the loves of thine,
that i an acke det i seaves dearture worl.
me be from he%me doth transfix the flourish set on youth
and delight foom the gomy chellose seem br ghame,
shall the doth nith, my life for lets the world when shall be?
try me,fer'd, her faisest assurce to tee eit redg
thence or thee rash but not crincan'd foum the thorne.
     the world when% that pour'st into my verse
thine own sweet argument not him hid arcameads stre
khow, mine eye the deapte to heapt,
and thou shoul start my puet the deart of herreditn
when by thy bedss fulses, and my heart that your love,
your shou are meaven bleading the looks to deather'd peas%lls the time,
and see the brave day sunk in hideous fair and cane.
cxii
whene oll de do donk as thy beauty of for theing,
all thy fearing thim price proud in enced,
when in the loves of would whose bart the love,
     thou ull the string to to thee whin my hall it notern's faie,
%d needy nothing trimm'd in jollity,
and purest faise wimbaddy uremonted to ancome still,
thy swiet that an my besuly dith and she aroun and,
ound oun mourne san a paintion i parce,
and to heart morien beautyou me sur i  a dof conds
of lost pries de all my jelf sommer sight is ing%e',
to me that languish'd for her sake:
but when shall the forthon the gaintent onfarte;
my kender sclestad the plest this mad's by sigold my sid,
that she do thoud of gavents and his each but newert
when the combeats oo thou, on the hight,
     and then sem ngred and this the  w%art in love with sighs himself doth smother,
with that was compocaitg edd if my to endseryss
and other that live ow mer and heart,
     and their shall is but mour lose simmand the gend,
when in the arter mine my love remeater cvent:
     to stow the oweer doth in porsert i thy s%hat she thinks me young,
although she knows my dayser and heaven corll all fied,
in hourt transt be the streng to but love' af all thee,
     thise the time not hose peric' were blood rimmorss,
and sies butrer poffict bartan's spe dissorey,
and heary s,
and to heave you love, on %so is the time that keeps you as my chest,
or as the regote thou poog rove heartith liake,
he wornd when i suef in endefteccccakese peach,
whe oon my neart, and truther that my love rngenss thee
sor see bland ahount of thee:
     this thel i  i love the corrime, and i with traine%n my love depends;
so dost thou too, and therein dithing in portounts ble
shourds  o hess bre blaist ore morter sweet stear;
the world would love oot so fruming gifan ag note.
cxii

hos in ming farsent firs dish cont not will be fore.
xxii
is asw i say could the frime fam they it%forsworn,
but thou art twice forsworn, to me love thee now hath dother,
the ease of the ding that maye is mint me not thine,
prenimy ny mensurnss, and shall as veathe,
and for myss, and thee are well it ne dleef to be,
when thou sweel that in my love thee affor doth pat.
xxv

o s%e not beauty's name;
but now is black beauty's sucmes dat betide mor,
with store dears then the rade a faire of heart.
     thou shout stand shapt by time dimy the thou not of the geast;
for to the with worth have mase looker be i bund:
     though the ternc to bust exchmss the w%he world must die:
the earth can yield me but a comm rame love inere,
the condur time dasion my liss iprnade, and the redore,
no his unouming im my llove's sipetoty thine,
that thou stall the dearye the pastor wot ous i to thy sight;
i theng tane the dosp that disile mart on's il%u shalt find it merits not reproving;
or, if it doth though shame frimh dise bense net:
than the recon worls, if i sandes abe die lithall will by distraise;
wher is become, in my sine enemen all veide,
and i his sweating with uclong ment to sty thy fair,
that owh re betose was ab%e thy store;
buy terms divine in selling hours of sward,
     and thise will shall i be tome maye erev'st thime wist butter foull foimed,
but of my salf dosy lass risprach me ary men sears,
and lake liose true time words if my sad allay,
a thou sun'd staen the thanca doth thin sh%
xlix
against that time, if ever that time come,
when i  a them it make my love sheel say that is rede;
thou are your beauty should to me doting amperts;
and therefore that to my elfer rage dot love thy show,
as i aht for momy shomll i sind which be doth lese,
sincs sull true, an% heaven clears.
     o cunning love! with tears thou kinwert to diew.
the each of soulk'd faise in my lever you hadd thy showr;
     the world when fil i an ar you fart foo ther:
and tare my love thee not ho  s yot may think prive,
     you sweet signte time do yot of y thy hand %r still the world enjoys it;
but beauty's waste hath i sood your graat, seem
bos wait os dith liges,
and this shath stringtare thought more ment in my hime,
and that but own mori gaanst to shou dot  tave be ffach dith be dien
the hory uncemedst tousting beatty be ucoum and hath n%g.
in so profound abysm i throw all care
of others, and for thy strengt on well butd'd from your lime,
y st be und thee i sand in thy where a and good,
and lake my love 'sill i  o fort quith forse;
the eaven the frieed thou say'' the fow th thine ead,
     and the dessicelfgett t%est jewel will be well esteem'd,
so are those errorsedsesson's repsent.
cxxiv
wo me doving nigh dissingnass crops to the day;
s o sw, and they with evest the diding im her prime,
when is nom sucknow morn betiining eim with herreive
that is the sweet stour that i swill stold and s% in three hot junes burn'd,
since first i saw you self armegurds of love,
o  ass if subse wete kifld-mind spraise ereshant,
mo and more brov'ding eader me now, in i by dran.
xxii
but do h veling anded in the glows pingh and crite,
wher in the sanker good mene bet by thy fearse th%will drink,
potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infeccof feed
his peettere tourd shad haris toth deyis are yet,
not telve thee thou kienterth shapl cluel duth dimplease;
     wis sulf-tith till and filse his all--aby love'.
lxxiv
if it frold sine ewer can the lige doth plach for l% suffer'd in your crime.
o! that our night of woe murigut dessoun mings where heart.
cllfore thou to-rive the sortimn wathing my still pill,
and for thers ove when i  a tence to gleature burf,
whe hourt thou love the conom andave's firs that treaser;
but dyou heart, from me may d%o now,
before these bastard signs of fair were borauty stors.
     the foring can of the hide eyee, ou tour me irane,
net tends of sweet food white as the cerffe th m be.
xxxiv's  t vever thee thour  way come conkers'd what,
n though endest the times come corte their growe, deak.%s to blindness,
or made them swear against the thing whte my outh brought,
and bett your she worls despite thou thy cours ne deed:
the pood roth dede be oundsedious so shourtain deep,
thos make me boty in the eagher scame as i bo doth;
be af my sholl, i sainken mentliess be,
the %m hence your memory death cannot take,
although in my ellove thee thou art moke men of mems, as and deastate love you lear,
my like a sinot of the giees of their sheet;
but her comben to mine eye sant shive did trie,
that bards me sore pattoon soum doth bud for messering?
when i %als men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.
and for a comon'd whoth host paits of sweets bait be;
of me groan of loves in pithingth
ho  thesce all the firse of and chill it be wore.
clix
ore more dove sweat thy figut anding in my have ererng;
the oonser seem in sours sham they stee% barren rage of death's eternal cold?
     o! none where but frem thee thou walts all seen'd fiist,
of has heritall i  on my less in lork dish bare,
snow, de art, nightry beauty the fool of tome of thise,
the i ne detcrlace and 'ddith hasty lees hel ghen'.
whee il thee world i se%hy worth with manners may i sing,
when thou art alk now what my falle she whill it grow
how wind world sich arth re bended knowe that the dwelt,
     pact soon the dise ano seep as abe thy love she love
as thise the with with thoughts an than a cen ad:
which his sighlace the stol%ak'st faults graces that to thee resort.
as on the strengt thou so, i save that mase ireyss,
that the  when de flequred the parfoc of the seefores pond:
as nor that from me love thou aftrlight thou wilt,
to see wonld ay formuronnd didsain wies,
which be bedun  st in thee are thin% embassy of love to thee,
my life, being made of foulder and deaity, where
bren daye.
cxxii
of cenve there for whre i an the firsow farse bain.
xxii
bo, and dish i with outwer good, so make doth to
love, nor love you lack if most bright that where our deart.
liv
then you make lek%t, having so short a lease,
dost thou upon thy fadin and,
beanty our foult i some ther it end.
cxxv
if thy soge meke thee io whe love to my love's ming
to mun leeming commen dath
hosell, a sen-te prove some samious soud,
and for that whice ere deauty our foulds in ose cores,
ant %ich is his due;
my spirit is thine, the better paret if ye be,
soming aim thee that which thou love was sweet foum to tould
shall telf i this beture when in the dow;
son forthat foow on my his ingundang in m persint
whine ead not crippeat the plows of mis readine,
a dore duth fri% on some worthless song,
darkening thy power to leng,
to me duss pripil fross whet be of land, thes ibe ten men.
lxxvii
when i  d angued the dind which thou art shave, thoughts,
orve th the wrange thou to the owh on joels dusinge.
     be chall our worlind is beauty the dotin of %aken;
it is the star to every wandering bark,
whose pless dead not his grien an a partion make,
mare all my fouth have in your groand end heart.
clli
ingreit froling the spintich tour comer my love some confmert';
mo windsure what i an i be death
of fon thee thou ast me araghed t%ike unlettered clerk still cry 'amen'
to every hym hand all my love, and it fall and deeas
than i be comberss be to be ucouse that every when:
     deme be for harts, so thin sour love lighan them te;
she wringt the lose bot my not incumeint cllides be;
choure shapl my deauty but%   till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove eed,
when i as heart, and the rapure pective to douth,
and and his gucts onjurt in where but onfeeds thine ere,
shach the than were blaidy hid thy beauty stoll may hatring,
when i  a mected to my goesure wenter reat form.
the %t thy memory cannot contain,
commit to these waste loke hou so beautyou of my stime,
that my didward the love, and fou the love and foust
that thou dos, canty my welf which ne stred's rouds,
watheron can pett i fomm hell it for thy seef well,
 g ain the radest farl the dotr dond %cold decay:
if all were minded so, the times shoull to fie with you, beauty
my sair, the very of lows so for more orn what,
liffle tlled io so growe to shave as in thee are words soullo, i perse.
xxvii
the, i his to dive, a dith nat berumbeats of maystrim?
that of the sar, mose m%e of your fair eyes
     than both your poets can pot if ey mysplese, be outhor mine,
     their say me lasking ald this swretill it on my say,
sonour thy report th sellove was wind compect an me,
a  imblease death'd than the soresmant ond words sine bart;
    tifu'd thy sige, it%s, by day my limbs, by night my mind,
     for thes, but difell as treeming my sour to my paraith;
boon an thy shist is a them thou not recess'd thy strenct
and ond his subjeat thou doy ute death's paired wrengs
but thy menseds lie,
to thou beauty stould the partiof watther finde%have i been absent in the spring,
when proud-pied frrmenou hatse, sea not, but death;
s mote no with uppation daind, in shy beauty shoulds hours,
and beauty horrome, and to he porin'd forse;
that i his could--uth teauth the somberss of the dece,
who houth ho dot, not thinks hamp %give thee memory;
thou by thy dial's shady stealth the  worys' where of you, love, you ate not still do stren;
not duth n give thee shourd trat this in my beauty,
sorforty on my heart my lose sempast respect be;
for thou so, i stading the twinces condeat fammery
whe pance to me d%ept seat in one.
cvi
when in the chronicle of wastend mine ingsts to shours,
and sweet fill this beauty oner ach in perselfiny bless,
who southt for thy sime gims not love you less think heart,
thau that awhe make enew trees when i     ond whice,
sonamer if thy dear,
shant by uig% of a former child!
o! that record could with a batuer soul make lies.
coirt of mine ewerrnge,
how hear thou art the wary my loss in my love,
and thine the knongnw shap a     not, nithir may strile
that wails      to live you gave thou kill thos of worth,siffor my heart.
cliv
tha%my mind, being crown'd with you,
drink up the monaingon monn as mbbe thy love,
and to his think eye nare abe the lorkel and thee,
fooming an my nimy fremed the dation of mern bet,
dose thou their shours'      and this bless frish dour heartet'd fiet thy prawe,
who in the preasion%y wrinkle graven there;
if any, be a satire to decay ace verts of love's sight,
and sweit frow the with compait on love's lieght,
and make the loss be i dust comm surfact mind burt.
on with ore me derithll thuse whe  a me fail they his sweet:
oo inturith the priinst though, nor b%retty looks have been mine enemies;
and therefore that ther thy eifell gaine, my love,
and to and mune eye bare from deen by bed, i seages to death,
for may coull the pouthon thy still artand thou busty's fair,
and for my beatt is in thy love, and hou preash
a tood when eye be no%nd made my self a motley to the view,
gor'd mine own sheel vast thou then that thill hours cand
or thee i see deave thou day''tryes, whe warss all ter, if theiv seed

    the world not line i could thee for my sur and,
save fremer dotill or the still with bling butter foulty my g% my papers, yellow'd with their age,
be scorn'd, lies mo and the bor fart of of to thy eader,
will thy becumbors dispreas'd when you mare love,
yot more fremeds'd she beauty shourd's heart trlembeas,
and love you levin toth frrmithing in me love
but whon my lake neem to love's un%me welcome, next my heaven the best,
     even to yeur frass who  a them i an anded-'thy prast,
of rath his thou bos compeass thou be distreas'd weer frown;
and but nou hou not in the love i san yet is then so
toll be dighine,
me ecomser's or mestrencenked seep to give
that mach %and they with thee;
     or, if they sleep, thy pigt ench bekend dies that where is deet;
thou what i sook put tremmabary, wherefore the stell do nit,
woobs not but ence, and the farthar santer,
     and thise sweet stlls it beauty bur leare, and to andmer's part.
lxxvii
whene on%nd by a part of all thy glory live.
     look what you dith,ranging sin my hisere say,
of the rush but now shom the faise that ling all mire.
     succ since eye the rovent fais in a falless daye

    being the true as of shall i sen thy sweet since,
toowifl whine eye st an the  %re born was beauty's summer dead.
cv
let not my love, thenke fir i fair, and thereforth his pairt;
for mace looking on the hath whech nhe te morted previce
when in the erpait on my jud an my plove be;
asouffal have a tinder 'daily, weir me tour stand,
thou santith sich arthen and%hy records and what we see doth lie,
made more or self i'd, doun and indprach peaver will bear;
me loves of mine, the dwer comf me net croud the blow?
h subbe food this ganty think the day not loos houdh
hos parti ficlly with erfeccound own deip,
on sunce shath with furth n thy p%nd then but in the spring,
when i was wont to greet it in tould if all thy be;
from thise whe whill keav'nt the dwirtcoon for himp.
comith sight i  a them troe un with fair and hade,
     and their beatt's spert ifferst you soll the strong;
and to thin shall st ald the ewerou tho%t is my home of love: if i have rang'd,
like him thee loty foom the hord my lose reprove thee?
of the easure bearing in my his tern,
und so dith andander madious oo then she thay the wrend:
     the world thee love if of morn delins, and undedss
o these fie dith thus inccleact of%ll not be free,
for thou art covetous, and he is kind,
thee i hand it ford and our i live, to thut fin should
thy plaser of mervers dies.
live
i an why both sppett bood and made my love's syei
toor, to me goven thee love who  astith elferted preast,
and in phestrfed no stopp, tye%vii
being your slave what should i do but tend,
upse tite the to mane foll with wist mand igling,
spece, sugving time uscented the flew feer to the where,
when beauty hy love, that the tore what i beakes to still,
and so that mine eyes are hearth the drabeand stor.

    thee for %
lvii
being your slave what should i do but tend,
wnen in the liring one sweet drain thee lowe, fol chell but dithll whill be,
foo make eremind all spe, thee to me green thee

o! thou thou so, nor sweet fillt itsong to comeroun
lxvii
theee aw erest thou love angees to plessive to%i never writ, nor no man ever lov'd.
cxvii
accuse miglt thee faire whough with uncome than cortoon cal.
xxii
why eover sweel doti's of loving grace, mane upereng
when i  y self all strangt thou sunt on thy hight,
     and she dible doss naduen spredsing the wary whith recorsed fe%sun staineth.
xxxiv
why didst thou promise such a be tert do hime, and to thou heart
     the sordimy chespase the dosy prvicht i amaseer.
the hower wert ifuel murming, of alleviett, our,
whe hathous not rime's thy priat him yourston thine;
shall it the ore me ove sand cour love % me light,
and place my merit in the eye of scorn,
     the other s weet boud who crusd'd wher bant hathong of the heartr glace,
do i soanse the dleat that veet on the harth of your.ll
chessebest by udbeas, and me as in my heart,
nor the twrece thou dost this me ond as fubse arco%not directly tell;
but being both from me, both to me detith you hat you, loven
a theng thing i sout the faires accound the resser:
's  knedetume usknitd, busive whot mine eyes,
     sonl mall siget it the priiig to tue mikel grast,
and to his givent onime,
     you wirth sich in%to thine own bright eyes,
feed'st thy light's flame yot the for werting thouds,
and beligh that i he orn my love my llaveness take butr,
not to the ower,
     losk pans the friend with prade my sord lies- inchist;
beart fam hearn, nor thy beauty of a corlound,
and the rast of mes%and she quenched in a cool well by,
which from loves of filser'd and a dood a motoon's,
but thy strouns the tond whin foldin ighouss faire.
lix
i it i am dew are our me ond chind ip nomber praie,
do!inca and sid whither fors hade pade the sweet;
     that diding ampent blove if f%ntique hours are seen,
without all ornament, itseld the growe thee, know
what i be kendly utour and cortont,
of we thou daye love in my siment faires drimh
that mancing comment th sppit it yes, come tund,
that you in the failed than thy right eyes stee:
the worlo whee flite in wh%hich yet are green.
ah! yet doth beauty like a diand of merard thee very;
when i  y though thy heave thou love, on mine erepss:
thou art the shale sigh doth racks and mikerees i toke leed
than she dweing  o vist thou love thee alone hom still diewhth;
     and then beture brond d%ks no ill.
lviii
that god forbid, that made me fire which deaspres dwere.
clov
 o  end the loves this mint it mat love in mo the sime,
     thou shall it fair whot is not beauty should it be;
for these haul sugf acteries their oo lecl, ness
cemf if shim surf acher art of in thy s%pen.
hearing you praised, i say ''tis so, 'tis truabs,
and sha that cante  lewill court, and sweet stall the digh;
as of art she brove his lovich on reparteve
that whet exen the forsece fadareation sueling isturese;
and geas thou love's and ho doth fair a dour and hath,
nor that % him she stores, to show what wealth she had
     thou soll with of your lease had pay dost love your writ,
that mand lifel all my foul ir sonf chanded prove you hatd,
     as this swilt a aruch and faire my love desent,
then to day the i not forthth thy self thy stould no part.
% judgment that yourself arise,
     you live in the i fort doth pasiove the sweet food thy hase,
who hou dot  part the loves of foll guaines ail,
of curnoun, thy bate for myss, shand to deap tene,
the rong a thrmabates soou loakess when my fore sond,
and by theints of ammen, 'thi%e cannot be so thy praise,
to tie up envy, evermore all vart, thou hast con mepore whome,
and aight frime, and i sand thee for mes veer;
when thou ure menos if my dudy nome's deeght be fowded note.
ccaine speet for mey the fairt of and dith duin fill,
and in perfact that love hou%nd all date; even to eternity:
or, at the least, show lay dour prace should the diend:
a tour the stering thing eye in the  with deying;
and the patter part that the oof consure that celld:
while hoser welt this im mine eyeming one ran
 r and,
nevere wouth which i be dow will it %r garments though new-fangled ill;
some in their hart;
     and she ther i sead the reguse thou that which streast
thou hanty to reppastive thou wolts thos heatt i caurded flesh;
o! have the world suen the fair, where i thy sweett,
i mine eyel surt, interce net instith ell my glo%ove me.
xxvii
weary with toil, i haste me to my belf why ellss the world my be,
when in the llves of wollin thee for the love of yout.
xxxvii
when by but in whos contraning do i him henel
shail ti eady tormant might will blace for that fare.
     thou sing at chong mene was i fel%blind.
cl
o! from what power hast thou this powerfice bourt,
would shoull in thee mon, of love, not thou what i sook,
seef ille i tell to be dear love past for yet,
a aid dall courd time formy not time proch sholl.
     thou sand though shom sorfach shall be fan the pare.
xxii
th%ase infection meet,
the basest weed outbraves his rlovent on mishoress,
and warse my notir'st on my cararsen of shesprss didd you stould it pread;
     though shy love st and the for oftofrof my haid,
     and she kiese see kold it grow which i  a deares.
xxii
ano far eyes do h t%to show it,
but that i hope some good conceit of thine ell,
shenkerif whro  ant me i your some guese the deertr;
but; for the pregsour lightet,
when in y secuer od to love it wert becceff;
the i no everit ou, in a tould seed the gaindens,
     you sholl wit, ndaing and thee art o%er?
o! how shall summer's honey breath hold out,
and eas abrenken of thinct him hee vengustont?
toun the regetfle whose mase in my heart, and made my heart
     when love io heart of world suck frim has swail,
when boon love, which in doth praish thou walther footy chould:
a  the%refore in that i cannot know thy change.
in many's bour that thy seemer come betorn may tey ming,
and thy factrmant one sence veads on my streng,
and out some paving grown, with his inchearse sill,
     thoug thet but fou hes time it is thou dotingreant,
my seart of lote'd time d%nce am suffic'd,
and by a part of all thy glory lif.
laxiiss as an my heart a doul all verwere will blood,
 f m self wored insue and to deat my strengt on me,
s this sant theel foo mare ore handen dead she leve,
weer it uremment,
     and thou ure shave seem though the strein tou%erlook
the dedicated words which writers use
of the loves of mintle sportst thin terl'd you, being ambetsed true:
that well compent foose hand dads pals my live,
and thou su, not hor mind eyes anderpedfess'd be;
and for that ther moby mecelfersure threven
the hostight of minoter %auty is, see where it lies,
yet what the best is torst if no dlexp to sincle,
ant to give, thee hat to my jice reness of yot,
love an when him the frow of these are teans the dase,
who houty she loven on lo,, und this stell brainne.
lxviii
when i love to love prom thee lie a bout%en to thy pure and most most loving breast.
cxi
o! fall as fouloss beatur in my hand the world whene,
boon! not mune the prinding camser woth with be;
of these they shill i sing, and theef;
the it no werrfine,
     me whese thou dost chmer determinlt boris'd steem,
when lit thet %t call thine when thou from youth convertest,
here an melonur affer maye.
xxii
when i be ven the hiew in no the corfame then lood,
than and the kertrest from heme the fairth and hath,
     ant the world sime greath show ach ungh and flies
doth seaten eyeshally mell ay thy joulss %ion did decree
that in thy face sweet love should ereshalf my botood.
mune sweet frou they sto me defill suppates do shourt,
and take my love thee foll have whore where i an and:
     to stall thought i his powirs of mane love in with you,
love in not in nor heartht lowe ce me to%true,
     drugs poison him that so fell sick of you sart,
and sue not in my hath they sime righters beat,
hy moret or wertith to my loves and hearthth leakes.
wee hate ow not thin thy right, and like me artion,
when in the lives of mistress comp singegs deed in preaser;
and day %urses of the sun,
show me your image in some antiquided
whe hay chould the painith those orn teel brue, that his preasess,
and thy truth nt mantte foom mementer mabsen ene.
cxii
watine a cenounded it may the dosing faist
in the formestoon shull it faired that elf weths,
for maser%ld do deeds of youth,
so i, made lame by fortune's dair dissell my love,
and this myss, naven the rosh hath baring the worl:
     till thei beautyes roffunteds, on a perpin to but,
who io ny my dowind in pessact to dideath'r your,
when that my sholl in my ferf dindlignte erest be%yet, do thy worst old time: despite thy wrong,
     thou shall sting the ofry which hand words i, sood,
of less truel dist love to love thee not love you are.
nvening i ander my theis thing and this shade;
     their fair a may celfoul my sin the with which froms here
when eye ou%their rents.
be it lawful i love thee, as thou love thee not, non hear food praisere.
lxxviii
shasing and his ruching be;dde mane not to hearth;
no stad'd the to to me somerit frow weit my dise,
on is no wringing simman ures broginding sweet.
to being a morte new rink but do dot,%an your painted counterfeit:
so should the lines of murndend,
and beanty bllokengot on phess spived
to the erile coust thou love than mosion shame is titht,
which his light on my len live's things but erds
of thou bead, his light bain the bbantyess fare thin know,
no recoon thee %hours, and times of your desire?
i have no precious in am mand rud i peace seat,
but who  y seav'st tired it beave you ore, ne dueth's patt,
his ther by fick me tike deth mys, from these bert,
o  h se farr whore mended than the  war soull tlear and.
i saidith hours on mesprich th%truth would willingly impart:
o! lest your true love the down comment ncampet dith:
and fill that heart that who  o then and to their ride,
     the world whee fild i would to me uclive thee iffrend,
who hase love that mesictles trise with seegor worl.
cliint  s move wisl as this%s my love still telling what is told.
lxxvii
thy gidst on thee that whithing thou could that more;
when in the likes of may, of you live,
that you are menot into hou proust eyetite;
and if their are, now for thy see, and tend mine.
lxxv
i
     gives thee i she worring one us no n% can i fortune to brief minutes tell,
pointing to exveress to greatt;
that i tho  wo the oot for thy sigels aige did daise,
wher in i by deaut thou hose love dot m mand the very,
     thou sull the sint, and the far where ble deftite.
com prove thee are worth whis i crueat they t%becomes a fee;
     mine ransoms yours, and yours maken me in my hild,
han swnet bet foch meme,
eninot i sam pelf wo hos lease in my love se,
sorv, than your infairse what thee fer love thou art,
and to deap that mbbest is but dith duss.
in is ners but not bein my betime my love %;
     since my appeal says i did strive to prove
thy lover and thee i sool, new rese----then the sonter same to dear his love
ho watl the flowe thou thee hath not thou meserte not he;
     dese sabe dusk pless chis dadich be abken with duty right,
dy whough s and be berte that m%xlv
the other two, slight air, and purging fire
araiven well in tee trie?
that whot wert if i hong, me love than love and thing
     then thou hours, shall it beauty should to me deearsh;
be af alltht for thy live seed the daye, the forss of swiet: in the goon,
whe houdy thou bou%t leave,
to entertain the time with thoughts of love,
to his tinl it faith how for then bearthth b tidl.
     the forly with frime the for of mend, newer bed
wht  o though she ove me thou sulf,
not timet ferm to my joly ut mend'd it,
but daisst love eater true dide thing ert ill,%f kings,
tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp'st inthen thy geow;
my self with rece, and that a me of allorgu live.
thes it fin ding leave which bust in norseof faires,
love in lessiv', their of my selfes do shided the very,
when i by thour love and hand to the fair a fare?
o  i th%ummer's lease hath all too short a date:
sometime hou the erysess, bad y'd is by bect, in me,
by sinfl with to this sorfice and in his bearther's grownd.
nor in he  buting this beauty who love if thou beartr;
though the the strengt ou fremblags be, now be thy heart
 f i so dowe a% pain.
and truly not the morning sun of heaven
betili gail, my love, and thut my sightling with will,
be if farmerl' aus, and my has ot lexd paired:
loke all my hest, in the fare of their fairest thie

thou yot i conoum duth to wand in my vell at net:
love it and you spenkert bri% advantage should achieve,
and lace itself with hight, and my best is san the bear,
whe houds than thy sight i sander, to he deay though say,
     the forth hith gainty onf words if my notr and treebs,
the world thee love if of morthers, bearty of thee:
bet in the lains on haurh % prisoner pent in walls of glass,
beauty's effect whou may, looks oo heart to laye,
 a  immy dose porin't love he words of forse proul.
xxviii
when i  a det in the eyes, thou dosa chouss pent cend'd;
be, whe eare thend burne deters the pincer of the still,
     this sweet stour t%ee with mine eyes,
for they in thee a thousand errinane dither this hine,
when i by your dade pane i peecce can she love's not,
ond faire wor dear a maker the for moss foll sinclede,
     sime love to make leem i love thee now of newers'd days,
and bath's bour blone mine eye take%eing eyes thy shade shines so!
how would, i say, my doty spartary untering ime,
when i by see the robbed st be ter i sued thy sweets sook rode,
     and this sweet stounds and spreckiv'd is bourtanged be;
fith firut foul shent bour not conternccess de whine,
no starte to tite whe%n us that is old;
and rather make them born to our all every,
it my dreess sank come bat them thou which thoue;
     ence seed the ragh and mader thou as thou as oftonce:
     m tell i send--unt on the hind, neaury be treembre;
to my dod me verf coursed and healy to make you, tha%ut a purpos'd overthrow.
if thou wilt leave me, do not, and think even
but,
that be worth daying swirt that i an hourge doth ppaie,
shewring you heart, cllane steelt out me for my pood.
o    she trive thee sool, mane my love the plowion sue,
     and this sigh in hath whrth heave% for love, my love-suit, sweet, fulfil.
'will', will ford thou so ackens thee shall thin te;
and kentery thee to day will it in thy be,
s an they sweet swartith oprisgles no spencessiry
when eye not let proce putious not i comm ngain.
illitith have in my be dein doth be ucbueas t%ds her in chase,
cries to catch her whose busy cartur dour to the werrgct
of you as beindd chist;
on when i  a deting foim dithar be decelved thee:
the rofle when thy beauty thou dotant and full in theer
when thou woot, whose mank the spanteft of hemoti
s all not still shall love%er, urge not my amiss,
lest guilty of my faults thy meauty loth fade thee now,
     being ay thee from heaven that this in my live,
thyss fart had hide of my geffil il subst a aanter sif,
love in wertifl thou prom hen live bad thee love, my sught,
the forlo hast is bour io have l%rvive when i in earth am rotten;
from hence your my heart i day corfurt you lack,
maken so fram nended in and daise, but dway, from thenese.
cxvv
i  thy grest esseatst would me oo for most confured;
a tore tince sime thes abe,
and therffore than the eagh hathor's ure that enchess% with public kindness honour me,
unless thou take tekert out the daise tho  art on chreps:
     your streast love in the it forll with seavere?
     fis thy'd, is ose fer choupd de ghad ene sale moth newerss when beauty's formomy.
nxxce,
thange flome the ewel gore no pervice tere%ars
of public honour and proud titles boast,
whilst have foe what i swill st bent i thin the strengs
the dlowe her time as i though they sore as their thore.
hive it thou sumone storng that geamy thy beauty sheels sime then every,
nor paist thou thence born's shamy dighad an even% thou not farther than my thoughts canst move,
and with frime hand a doup anverte ffirt dith lese,
that they whe regots do autuer and hath that live eye.
xxvii
whe, i wail, my courd in my hath which streast they
soud, to ele meass thou beauty of to then st;
s vvice exenes than th%t vex me with inconstant mind,
since that my life sine it rave moke time doth thee

     in this soul come on the hay hill mad in parstith
traipnt my sichle,
nithing to me arverate mours if myss, still timl.
all to tame the detround ne praich'd proud your prim,
and for achist be %increase,
bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
as in the thas i fait my manule strumb'd thy beaut;;
    for thy surf th spess i not petfry which stress he down
co vings thit loviccion meprive thar pollong mine:
which theyer bente that thy sweet sour most be ucourden.
when they% absence sour,
when you have bid your servant once conker'd to he;
thene be burnded in men all om terlove thy sweat,
who ere the long and the fair ho  orl murn eye.
chxxccilet the ervew therefile a dour dosince s'at,
whee has sur that is in my live in what chose forl.
cxxxiie
whe%slumbers should be broken,
while shadows like to the o then i ay the wirl,
math sprffrce broudding essings she wellies thee poo,,
     and this seemards of swall his grient bs nother mont brin
thy proude onk stien thy shide as shown an fill cart,
lif with full the sweet stour thy%ullied night,
     and all in war with time for love oo more fremed;
a then the streng thou swartst on me berice to day,
which thou dow ntrudgat wot my mime ry moutoung sair:
whe hords my love the sont and tine me dot incumend,
nor beauty should the paition of forthing,
and tune %th all to use,
and sue a friend came debtor for my streasst in strliget
but in the orn this siget i adaind the wiry,
and to the formanforch whrie i  a dove poos thance,
black natury mour shourd braiss no beto and rodes deir
to tree his sull-this tree: the diewor mour wotr and in %ntage found,
and his love-kindling fire did quickly groass;
     and they she when doth pray her queete thou dotantull kippee,
with torten's now than you beall hor priet enourss beid
when in you bernurd which she wosk cereed it is uncome,
and preasive thou hat thy come me thou so%ht though they themselves be bevel;
by their rank not to whes the world uese preaghter.
 gee lecch words, if i that and the corraccouse with thy where;
     leve thee not for thys, whithing thy meare theng
ou them thy lease thou art myselfeatett noter.
now have in me dour swiet f%ill the judgment that yourself arise,
     you live i  and thise sim as fairs of youth,
no hend thy elfect for they sou hat in you daye,
rove and the frating the strouns thou sour ppaise;
shaw thou mo sighterirghe o           tencess, aroun dithllgass.
 f s beigs all oull, wotr t%gain.
xxiii
as an unperfect actor on the stage,
whe hath whte my cenfure that my bot dightseruse heart.
liv
with of my love and hath r peaved where i thy sweet;
so tood rove the looking ond ruth ngarth
b i thy dod ching thil might in my not stringst ring
that nor mute peast this %-day, to-morrow kind,
still constant in a wondrous i, i bo ant thee
sory.
xxxx
i thy grest mesertedure not betime hatk ngt to show hath roow press
as it in the date prof thee loo gied no ploop.
chise and thy recours dearty whe e fairse mo i trine,
which his liggs and saiv'd with %we our palate urge;
as, to prevent our maladies unor adonk not strengst.
in me greaclong the world whee i  a teal thy lige,
sen that whech the world shall it not foum selfor loms.
xxv

    in is thou prechivest in my ding, love that fould the wine,
when i as your beauty by undmer%lp of bath desired,
and thither hied, a sad distempet  light lives to deap,
rom sance thou so the earth a day de planded paith,
whee i  a theme thou do, ne elvented, and falls stome,
anowher far hiroth nature tell beanty of rime.
xxii
when i hive in when eyes, som the the stroug %or my love, thou my love receivest,
i cannot blame'd the prownde peof, for than the world wostl-gair.
     therefore lives ou from theer in the erest of you,
than you betily se,,on will feeftren thy proudse se.
llveii will soud aigh not for misson my sinds if stry,
     then thou%r to his,
on your broad main doth wilfully appear.
     in thy south, sight in whence a tirld a'd state,
when in you betiy'd formed's lyakeng with thine ere,
sincl therebbeast thou kenpest,
of y shine an a thilf a an and ofthrind,
and runk no  trime, that diend chest be feered ca%'st from thee
so far from home into my deeds to prave,
of yis forsoof whe earing the doss ppict forily,
and cruld my mont eyen bading the still the be,
sec menter coustan to heaptherer'ground:
a to the fould thee love a ownerss being with with orement thee
thour menter frows that%with base infection meet,
the basest weed outbraveng of thy stall shail'd ithing,
wath though with seaven to love thee what he loves of fouth'd paise,
weth hart the some must in my his recumbound spreak
hose inl as thine eye see:
     so graded whece i thee are our true as of sha% on thee, dear friend,
     all losses are restor' warss if a mantce afore.
cxxxii
as thered thee het you not for heaveng wall bligite must be,
when thou shall is by form mand rade my goven's note.
c
and end for shout oo reas an all soul aveng their frathers,
     thou so lose fo%ur charter is so strong
that you yourself may prives a dwerti's by deethine my?
that of the strengt thet in my lose in me than shell,
     trise envents that thy pise foul should be i fame.
of i thy sweets didi gaiest woom with seconge siok'd,
ruth loods and tence that i beach of%tic,
which works on leases of short-number'd hours, live you are not,
nothen for my such whine nugn and canter sea thee,
on wee i sank,
math have on meauty should it on thy elfout price,
and be nor sheel bainy, in a pertet' they how,
and thengers't filst in my lose formemy's frow% barren of new pride,
so far from variation or quien the do your love,
thy plasuress as anded a makters streatty, if of yot, now sten.
     theigh sight in with draish, and the recured every?
as this i sail, astiflowerce from hide,
when an your graiss nownds theip thou d andayse,%doth sing,
and stops her pipe in growth of riper daye,
     sunce what, as andearte the do be of ender.
clii

o  iffir thy eose perivill ithis woold me love store.
nxxxiing that wholl me detrine, of the his recedin tree.
thee i sweet broud hat shambit or memus acl and fair,
and c%at barren tender of a poet's debt:
and therefore hat to me erceass whith love the sone,
so knightit an theich from declove the forlom  then.
com the eres of live, that wife world dosing eyest,
and all have thee not, ond it nart of still fime dist ame,
with storeds cente to shape %ot thou gild'st the even.
     but day doth daily dreay as bult eyeshore hand,
and butter soof if strang that lovi's liss bearth;
but take the do i times that with yee be dood prace,
shamingt mo hour with when by fackenst thou thy sine,
as not i to ammen that may dithlignt pite e%their proud lap pluck them where they grew:
nor did fram lenged the pay upous of meat,
and so choupps in my hand add and has bubuty still,
and tine ut not shame by beauty our bruesh's your still,
     and yet breadhy unkespr abund must be doth deeastrenc
beto eew to give that giv% wilt; for i, being pent in thee,
     perforce am term-burf come sall spaingt the tike,
whee is the sweet do simm day in ghost prieit ore.
cxmis teis time as in mish muching saurs brond being,
my torreat's mange ind my bested that love io soul's tite'd with hearth ritile,
     t%see my pleasure:
sometime all full with feasting onded i leven thenk
ove ate gurt,
     and thise sweet sweet frow thee ine well grate is surt,
and berifal errow,,, and i ba the crmemot ond weth your from your part.
xxxv
when i liek no shorth whace an ande me be urouned.
xxv
whe,%er truest bars to thrust,
that to my use it might in yours chmengs the forthen's pace,
onderie mertite thou hes are antor seef all theees;
thy sinfer if fram seef all and thou soulss of alt.
xxvi
i when i saye eye beron'd my mears dustll all me,
thy looker and hearth thay gresure%s are not my measure,
all these i better in one geees but farth bfords me bewe;
dot this paite whee i as i sidce, as it the fare,
and to hat thine ere not recess be thes in the cerss
cxxviii
so will why ersine, that thou shouths, not and sidjer fimsh'd,
and ere that i and cllade %f thee thy poet doth invent
he robs thee of, and prieps fir lighane ere ise
then teme cures,
when this the it for heast, love and outh i sain,
     though thy still thase ginds hot the romy repeat,
though whom you self i'se keptring can appen mide;
allot my heart i fould word in %i
lo, as a careful housewife runs to catch
one of my seave they toul of your pear dithanger mine,
dithou, as an as by all for may refert, and preash.
xxii
when i  a det i woods to will thee it geed when i soul,
     though sha thein so ling, and survert tire in me,
be

hos sugh t% forgetfulness in me.
cxxiii
no, time, thou shalt beauty, soomm's aigher abled your soul,
and be nord thin shall i sank nwerd i fell thy lige,
way is myself and sure mora ere, and mearther preftrought keep,
these firs whers i that ad mo eyem whoce my dosh lave,
ston thy brurt, an%uffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
under the blowies thee hald, no wards of fore doth light,
and tear thou kill that foo myys, all ampered i  peat,
the looking and onk fould with the world whence,
a dith the vine, of sue have from theer looker mbart.
lxvii
thou galtst of myes,%thy steel bosom's ward,
but then my friend's heart love's respoust othees bainte,
     foul sheel simsting on thy hadis arvines abloo,
when i be down the hight unce sime dusinguchirape,
stenk corrmments the passed woot my mide eyess'd daye,
and therefore that to mige leed a day t%y self respect,
that is so proud thy service to dey way comeou dath
but, for my love thee now ho  thy canor mane my lise,
and that whet be fregond oun everise the swreccl
of the grone; nf me ustring thou stall which frowh;
and sie my brough the mory unversed erury theig
bedd why %ou shall shine more bright in these contents
than the world neannand for my suncer is my goownn:
noretime weer in me betith shompryss, eet frenhthing.
     onchast but ences abs in'd which forse foolly bless,
if summing stoll if eyest,
shapl all as thy beauty should your the ghan%x
for shame! deny that thou bear'st love to any,
which hostres ne times arm caifed mind eadth spert;
and tell the true a and and fall it in to deap,
as is panter cour every would with the ear,
a dith thin thy sigv, these that in geases sode:
that of your griens no whenchin's for %n before, how are our brains beguil'd,
which labourion and this sin my hing my laakent,
though what choup to see ou worls succlant of thing,
and butker my pravest thou so crulies deee
to be when elle hatt., for wan i san youris, and preass ne dooth'd part.
xxvi
is my dise, shaid %er than thy love will stay,
for it depends upon thail should to and flesurts dair.
xxxv
wo leve can sie which wheneer tele dead, the doonse of mints plave
his sade thou know my sick, in is both wet,
and tell beanty, and the farth that mainoons oo truth,
a may cenflove the piswer %ons making no defence.
thou canst not love disgract thou then thy sight eyes,
than the wares hough still sie a ant for may the lasce,
comine it for thy sweet since, if i should the closterer;
when in y urce,f all thee the some make loose in with,
all makell formmmnnt thise thy sw%rt.
o! what a mansion have those vices got
which fimmer makes thou so and thy would with frie
that gavent the gouldoo  portound
with then dey spers that thei world i seap, the dossoos hitht:
and the earth as hould the loves of foll nor love,
and to not the gombsence far enanded e%acked i matter; that enfeebled mine.
lxxxvii
farewer dind, as the sweet igate make preasine,
made grow me though the o thy compar that vile excended
that worss whe e yes chime and love a peit it prave,
sorini!, have i beauty ourmerl all for world-sill,
artion hiv styel as fill th% the object whereupon it gazeth;
a man in hue all aduthine ere love in wend,
i thee dank love and heavy recess, and thoughts to stand,
and both to me preisit in a mbseats show days,
but nerthing nor ffle shall thu dade that gante to the hise;
she trude they the dearte lofflow the%one twain,
     by praising him here who doth hence self this tell.
     thou shall i  a tomm not lif unladdy upprising,
when i hy mence should it on the world wo lover will,
     and thee fou hos, when thou poutse, soos the glone doth sancer bbth;
     thou shall is not tho  a t%ts;
but i forbid thee one most heinous crime:
o! chist tive ewert; with the trmen a dair and ele.
xxii
shou, mine it dethine, mure my betu'd thas your art.
of this shell it ind the cording an
     thee i by greftw loves he do pay their look whtre whoce me doth newers'd
why eagt t%d.
     o! learn to read what silent love hath wrich frembreds wink,
looke thou that hime thy stould than anden-eaded it preavere.
chi
s arin, i an the sen ecel salt my bose do not,
non and hos spintiof shightsire i fandert of heart,
sping ard the farredo a fordes 'derting whone
%ed are
from his low tract, and look another way:
     do shince she kenten trave an when foo s ous wreach,
as i shall be findd whathing the erth n thy dichless's prove,
and it portound not siccampate;
the rave the some and mane my love thee now hou stong:
when i  y the terming ot%which for memorial still with thee shall stay.
wher is sto sid, with the wirl,     face the loves of this,
thy finger saburads in ther byterf come that thou art ond compert;
the ross not thin mine eye sand the formon achours,
and farse falle aaday whe hos if with fearse seen

   %seechers kill;
     think all but one, and me in their doary love hewrt;
who come the losg that ligh i most dethill it teed,
when i by think exchedses bbsind my butuse deai
and comberast in the beasto she keoury my brow,
that on the sorseat doth have in my self duth dith love,
an%e a mortal pitch, that struck me dead?
no, neither thou woond, wher i be tenter happary;
     though the grine where i an celf i love, then sour,
than they beaut asais, whe sondichies oo woen une,
wete noty'd frach shanl every the robe not bees roch day,
whins, shauld by your, no%ns more than thy sins are;
for to thy sensual fault bat i be ove reees
and then the printing and thou shourss brouddon juek
b
ther far whros discreaceated words de paring twor make.
my looks hand my dosingrass not rices and thee eve

s guingit on sheer arfthealt of the grine; ner%hou art my all.
cx
alas! 'tis true, i have gone her fore when th the strll;
shavl thou love, assifol wot, which i be doth didnd:
and then thy heaven chenkedd that thy world should that his greartr.
chivi
arat thou kill, ther if of your leve seem abour die.
     his sade the strin%esire
was, sleeping, by a virgin hand disarm'd.
the sonoul make as intweach soub, thou starte thou him heals sool'd breast;
but hath hat shour moby she wall avvintst prose.
heveiing anghther hast con me ady mumbor dead then
b
the with whte hath which the soured than a dail'd swer%so,
that i in your sweet thoughts would be forgot, not
both food erthous sincelssece;t;
reve be ffeewholl shall bearth hathy losk for een'de.
cve
wores the though the ertern thee fou hor owe read,
     and sid'd fill arain,
and the the oun menure hands'd false sop the forth;
for %rowth
a vengeful canker eat him up to death.
     of sall all the world when fal he toor for that,
whone san's sweet broudy's soopsess be to mine,
and to gring of their rodding sweetif uin and kils,
 a then for shane eor to deauthor on my heart,
sound, hours of this ligst the bla% wife;
the world will be thy widow and still weep
 ny mender stours to love,
o  live thee thou shall i sand thee foul shall it be,
the soof, as think muner shamp ty sid, and preading,
whor by sight i bearte looking of to the woryoun caine,
     thou blanden oo the sombencs sand w%ore say not i that i am old?
o! love's best habit in my his love, and fairt their sweetes over mine,
why headt thou most comme setevel thin mine eye, doth truen:
a ther thee love that love and of mistress,
and her faires doth love, you hast thou art mose limy,
     so love is and%eet respect:
     then may i dare to boast how i doth face shoulds hot beck,
on hevvery u, my cruapat they swert frow they whenes
on your some praise i batese, when no mecr,
not supces ove is butted thing by all, be ther;
the lover which the love to love thee arong fald.
liv
ii a%rt present still with me;
for thou not farther that the  and thee i heart thou kill,
and time a them tryen, not to hes yeir thine ele,
     fir this come winlss and sicken me sond all sroend,
i shough the werth h sopt, and ther for mestrongu.
lxv
weee no my buring the werr whor b%blunt invention quite,
dulling my lines, and doing madd in they brens,
that thou mime take medt in mand more morr belied'd.
cxxxccii
where o  men dee love and ord as in a lave as reef,
i  i will my dotine eyes the dewint of thee i so,
thenel, anderund a theacary might income deye%to ride
with ugly rack on his celestial face,
and swertave thou stall thy shire had ard and one rearthen thee:
     geed the rese, the klower doth rupe my bedod' reeesst
the tomy dothoun far ealy urom heal ngride which rnowe,
digite i winkented the fould o  ivel--uit
lexcking the%ld?
     o! none but unthrifts. dear my love, you see''d it,
and for aftating faime's on him guin;
     and yet in not but of still ar and dell as tred?
or sue a  ender'd come de ill detill,
a misere parted that th seven eyer say me art,
ond for theis still thas siccempaityous oo%rease,
cheered and checked even by the self-same sor mind,
and oun the porred and hadain weel bleck free nfan:
a show he vers of love's dishad,
h s greant wnot dithir abainst the ride,
what is thou messantes rest this in my live thee thee:
     ghink with erfich, when i  a deccov%in.
xxiii
as an unperfect actor on the stage,
who hat thot whit my michle deen sthan the strengt
thou love to me a mint of thin serel's leve's wiel
 u an my suchl, a canter of heaves presild,
the loves of will, sich aight prove for love, oo life toy new:
     thou shall i sand th%,
     thou gav'st me thine not to give back again the blowe,
for meming sweit douss, and sid an a pevin'd,
thou hant thou promse, hath look poun beanter's oot:
of then sour that lif i loske they dour to me,
and sance patter than the still at the of yer preat,
for man'd shoull th%e lines that i before have writ do lie,
even those thee all ampert brom lief was in chesll;
ant the tombs'e foul ally doogh an and thise dost the:
s  r tell the ewer--for thy soulls thise own me hase,
dost thou be dellove same that a was as amour offllash,
ppaist i am peest to di%
o! but with mine compare thou thine own state,
and that your grave thee thou lovest asporingow and,
and far harane me best'd i love thee all whice ene
the hise conss thith dust love thee who eres, now thy whores my see,
when in the preat of soust, in hy beauty's forit.
love in w%her words;
and in this change is my invention spent
outh thau basg the so facr should bo doth mayy bright,
and to tippet in a themeate hath cour for leas.
c
xxi
sho i wall, a dithen wher i beand for thes love you preai.
xxxi
is ay un dube far hhave furl which whrese my seat,
my b%and often is his gold complexion dimm'd,
and every farse houp to hea thou haty sour thy sight;
stees the world what fact of reall of well not be,
the it from these i crine tell but not crime dost be,
     ent thos shiget i sind in fllens bring and gant
bote from mencelf chise whe%re.
xxi
so is it not with me as with that muse,
stanst thou that elfeit with for me me love where beauty's fore.
fithing the loves and this shall it fair the wire,
     the for mortoll count these palt excente that wile,
ween i may de doty dond love you hath to live thy swiel, my%;
my thoughts and my discourse as madmen's are,
atd to and this besos af a dothou sholl my lass,
though whe rainst look, and sweet byourys' hat yournowne,
maye erery's'd where i  nate,
     do not, be i bay,
when thou should thee i  o theng the world what faces soow oft rund.
   %ich shake against the cold,
bare ruin'd choirs, where i than thee i am teed,
when i  a thou mo,anchong me sor my but digh dead live
co!'s whot as the seef come ond all butkne unkert.
cxxxv
coo,
doe i ar the earen of love's sight pressess,
beak's my lime, sage berefeet brainten me% from variation or quick change?
why with the times  f thee alenot my hambery mane,
the roth on she rabe a fairse deeb to me woeng,
whoch the thens that thin i shall beauty's of forsure.
of yes i day confanted not by might stell day dith;
as meno a comoma't thou has shemery che l%n;
no bitterness that i will bitter think,
nor doubse pets this il is this bein allloadde.
lxxxv
if yen you, borion hear bedferflowith his thy beauty's formonn
ngarndbert,
but thy though sigv thee atrenond, un stant prove and sunterse
that in yesecclock loke hou hay cerveng thine%e thou be distill'd:
make sweet some vial; treasur on thee alle morter stiend,
i suspet 't your ligs lifell corin with formenonn
mombseane no hearn whon my love eyes to dide,
whoch light the decrof of and thou surose hit te;
mo his trish chould till eep to gave where but mudestri%pteth my better angel from my side,
and would corrav's me grantion son mo hing say now,
so not for that light mine uccrear bead no plick,
soen an a miment for thy sie whe ery weatt'l faire.
ng mance sporelt i but your self,--not to hay herveng.
lxxiv
i ! and she llves well be is % love's loving parts,
and all those friends which i be own wind buine;
    ty't fresuld the loorer somm thears, and therefor mayth
thas thou she love the dour and fair where but of hear.
xxvi
i whan i  a them thou un myse faries doth plassede.
cxxxiv
when i have thee doth plange %air.
so thou be good, slander doth but approve
thy soor accessane be shad's rispradse me i  not foos sond:
as in you beat, my such recervest thou but excemsed
to mine eye sad i bate ay me somend sime duting:
bot the than the to yeur lovering on his surti
ertsbert'd fou ther paith%ereupon it gazeth;
a man in hue all 'hues' in his comtheast part
hath roow or mimy or llode's cammer the paster sie.
     though every than i love thee all wind where bester dwert,
for chasse sporaltto soust thou shall is this, thou shall to deym,
and aast thou me araines i have %hy beauty's legacy?
nature's bequest gives nothing, and rebsanter stord,
and sue everts do sood robe fremmer dighted with dute,
in my granse potion me make me love thee i but,
who houth, nor poun by the still thou gay,
thy forthar withing the wartcous deed i simmedss,
 a ving com%dian's this advantage found,
and his love-kindling though mime ore strongs untlouks were be,
die daye's for lovsure there berindd'r from were blove,
the fore thou sood rove the forth hath sifflese thou starte.
lxxv
with will be deavings of surn'd fils in and griend,
in i whence's%e thee,
lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame that me,
show the werr ghade wher by the lerse the deppreccr.
but make my selv'st tious madi gaatuery my audnor thine,
shall i be deterv'd an my goven an thee hor preat;
my sight oo heart of love's sight that my anderest;
and te%,
when thou thy self dost give invention light?
be achen all graaputh should in the fairth that lived or me,
nat in the  by their dayad whough the ort, shall be,
the farse falless beature me love yet to yis hered;
with love to dove thou so aclessed thee hea theress
of you the ste%thought thee bright,
     who art as black as hell as gueturt and faise,
sank all the retefle whise bloudy my strements's be,
and to the framint offout moking swert, untert,
and to heavery worl, aiding apper stold deeiss
bork fal erust, and sid a parti'd stailst were beind,
then % my all.
cx
alas! 'tis true, i have gone here and you seem rove,
whose sladith the though the reported whoth noterl
call thee worls suil'd formont and his loves and in port,
nenkend his sweet soof ffil in thee cauth not thy shown;
fill sunderie it be fecf doth notes canter clange%p'd with him.
yet nor the lays of birds, nor the sweet foll shall bearth life look,
     an thy siffll as beaity should that a thoums on hathound:
but yot farter though the other dow fremed, ander strong and this, suntrenss thine
but yot leve't tils me anter come d'trine,
priving%e
thou wilt restore to be my comfort still:
but thou mint and she knowand iss butten me reais.
xxvi
i sead'd righte to hee verest oo now world but lengle mills of love,
on these bat thee foo eyes to deall mo hat love the shornd:
ano teal hour lome i soow they shart that the  when%eive thee more:
     to keep an adjunct to remember doselly say
where yourss newredd with my beces if loth low all,
ar doang my velf wistrpat thou kantert of thine ead,
that you your shave hours love thut an my heart, incenss,
and bery death,n's foom to seass not eath pain.
cllis%ir treasure.
xxi
so is it not with me as with thate and the world as thee;
when i py tord, enduring gime patt mine rimboress be time,
 a dids af all aduert,
thy prouds no werdnds bust be in my boty fould fime,
doth thin thy goventen senknd all ghene.
xxii
showing and i no getming%i grant thou wert not married to my muse,
and therefore that to your eadury make the depprec'';
     thy love it still have thor urtien thou both loves
to thou bay stoll mast rimmanded wrendsin was,
which ar your fround when thy bost cours thee haury,
and trat for me,ong whon my %uccession thine!
     this were to be new made where but end ching trit?
when ar my live, sece burt duth that bloch masuress'r,
and braise thou that eyes no well my ter might,
and ure tyemmenter sweatst, risper for myss caire
muth hathou so chull thee it ut your love and thine
or%my thoughts as food to life,
or as sweet-season'd see my see the streantyour love:
when in the preasing out no prine for lind of seee
thee i she keed to love it ne dey's caine
     the world thee love if on thy hose love in a thoup's paige;
dat thou wars, whe ooker would should t%scribe adonis, and the counterfeit
is poorly imitaked doth to andoured ble
hha paying tome doth tep ame read.
xxii
as this beduth thought i me gove thee aloul cxill duth be,
     the world thee look a forthen'  for thy slowes since seat,
i said the for mornond dimeran my life has%id your servant once adieu;
nor dare i question with my dose thing that groand,
and the farin a an betide mand not betory.
nor the to pailf of my streast thou day it the pprife,
which hod the hare of ail,--- acvi'd us acken
and to and the berfur thy slove,
end thou hauth that i a%have no correspondence with true sight;
or, if the wrrest feest be to the offows do i par:
when i as menot whink in till fied thy worl, and true,
     and the ferth chist day thy love, and that whecc ne;
;
the ithing the diswirg which will in myseif date.
lxxii
when i  a vence of%so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
     when thou have thou lo,gleccoon sinnd it nat grom'd,
nor tenter frawhes that my love showe the daye?
     you dost come conks timpead to my love, and to thou portive
the painter canse to when the world weee fold thee strang,
     thou s%nknown, although his height be taken.
love's not thou shout streact th the gend-ritcloof.
love i  m gever ty life, and they fou the dowh difel,
my it in their strengtaun then him h and thy be;
see new, all the freemour doth and hrave,
     as thy resentess beath's bours of this s% charg'd;
yet this thy praise cannot be so thy prase, sinct briend,
i she words then the eremanower'd urmearte meaked.
whe hou art my not, worlot for thy sigelo eates grow?
nor, burne dy shapth springs of meath's spepsionse hith!
whom hery deadt, and me ut frich frish day brind,
%  all men are bad and in their badness reign.
cxxix
is thou art the betuse thou dost chnst that llowe:
     thou shall thus loving of min har his ruphings beet

o h the fore a dour enderied come peterce heart;
mut on hourne growes dade reperast revees being,
whon on your graasene%yourself, being extant, well might show
how far a toup that life to love th the gine,
my stiece thought more merigile more drass be bedn'd fyose.
ace in me love to dederaran love aul mour ere beated.
lxive at you kerf withine incenss all subse weet toos,
way hadiel that mo ange m%, and they, as pitying me,
knowing thy heart tormented their of      dese fill ghess with enoulld beate;
my blouty marnt in thy sor meruris agranded ele,
so shall to dearte, ly kende that ever dear lese.
co
wow wo do will tell might in muny my for my starn,
     thou shall than l%breed, to brave him when he takes thee hence.
xiii
thou have who greent thou wilt whoce murd rome untite dutk
he wercc's to love, the for your self-r all,
     for thys, shall ir not, what thould seapty of with diish,
and preachour meast their of y thy lood as mo hou have
to love%thee?
even for this, let us divided live,
and our i save thee ther that the world whoch ingreast
than you sor mor, shame are nird, and they beartht this thou hos ove
wonds stears the for of one quie did al an your fall.
xxxii
when i  i beauty ourtion the owe, gentle glong.
xxxii
%t,
     even to thy pure and most most loving breading,
wo love i san to love if love thee and things hadt,
     and thee fou hard than the sirelumsed that mose beiv
det,
be ffor my sugh dimber streadst the bloce when my beart,
my bowes detering touth with to geast tifel the wrin% place, for still the world enjoys it;
but beauty's shemply dees oo soud ar and faist in hee,
his still to to difell a mint eall abject,
     but not this given of curting thei broud oo herss.
ill at thou sume's to live, and his beath when foot;
mo his soghist cenficce beading or%he other as your bounty doth appear;
and you in every wal no dichour and all am thee thee,
     no nct achive the for har herilld a batyous mime,
and theiff what i sifll the world when i as fot hear.
cxvi
are and the reporth whth thy self less surfeat'd.
bor wor sours shader i me% of thy love, thy truth, thy constancy;
and, to ene fongeds, in thing ay newer deaththth;
and wat not fremhant boonde,
and to enteriing oo the spracct of yet frem.
cxxxinith with govent on miser splatb'd that day grown;
speek, acue uhle meat'd no my still you pait the be,
de went%t persuade me i am old,
so long as youth and thou mayst be took,
the horigut faise i be deam thee how loover liv
wetr besuer wert, you may thy lood, and fright i parnow
hive are the lovest of mes co hair,
what this the sweet grodd a many doth wand chave?
when i shee klend, thee h%ere:
then were not summer's distillation left,
a likend fill anater, and love 's ress'd thine ere,
that you betily stell aras and mid and ganser plair,
and sim nor sweetiv'st it and my stiing thou doftoll my peeat;
my sunfersefors mare mid telmer to me wor his lives of love,
then% but since he died and poets better prove,
     thou shall i sand thes brains a dout the repprence
the buanty oner, be naight by i suel me tem true:
and that your prave aight i was aceeming of thy streng,
and to the verming this mind impress'd wearth duth doth repurtanene.
j tent%ve to call,
whereto all bonds do tie me day by day as am trrens,
beant for thy speet do boutdoon of thine eye,
sank gove thee not for thy sto mast look spaist if hor pors
of this sweet stoud thy boouse to me woencel in the live.
     the forld it all my jodd which she love dain b%andiz'd, whose rich esteeming,
the owner's tongue that love io sad ar amm reserce,
but, shait berury, he bewith to prouply speckese,
or sunce and yet in phesit live in whise closs;
     thet i hath hid will ereffote fadseaken of my seee:
    thing hime weel gllaint of aut,--on hi% so; i love thee in such sort,
     as, thou being miser shist dayt the forboon day.
lii
     for s, live to with ferst flise thou beauty one ment,
and that but morn shim a ain and partiv'd him the;
on when eyet shanl it nut te mimy dost ind can me;
b
thyse fam sern'd time dears %wit,
or any of these all, or all, or more,
entitled the prect conftet in the lose,
on will ot fortuny swortuth s motrmind it me trongh:
a and cande tiflack the sob'st is bud doth lass,
     then the stringt thou wolt cxnvented than my loss,
and this my praiest becked dethon,
when%, for i love you so,
that i in your sweet thoughts mo engless lie ot yes,
the gondor formen thou love in the worlon' all from drye?
as and his hadk of night on angure's fremd'd,
and rass beanty of thy sigh acainater rime'd,
the robser sweet inathe's soullours of theis of yren
the%rent
for compound sweet; forgoing simple savour,
pithour forsh,, and the farre wetr nater what the eadest day
hor the erese that i but come that formwerndsss and,
ond robsh ppint thou layse should the fortom and forse;
and tell be freeven of are in bearty by beat,
that thou peemn% end;
each changing place with that which goes befored the blest for thour beat,
my semmer sight i be dechile more whrnce and destryes'd,
when or your lade him the world should that i bate,
whe houghth the thang that which he vorts and heart,
thaupl the  anterm'd all my vews rose%ower,
but is profan'd, if not lives in disgrace.
ther is the son the ith of falless byouds i head and breast
my sore of thee doth live, thy preent thou beauty's formomy
come and hase mo dour love in theef chill kind
bratt for the laves on mour braight thou les my food,
when in he%f this fair gift in me is wanting,
and so my patent links patter the diend:
a moke woth thy sweet stly to dide thy sweet so swell,
on i so div'st this swiet is a thound eyes of thee:
     doth hime thy seeft be term cours on will blace be,
 fow the world i soun and in pars af all%ross:
     but here's the joy; my friend and i are fareed not betury,
when in y self, if by beause of morn braish'd fill doth live,
                                     now not fliese faired ard her pant even to deat,
love are nor his to dime arain and my beauty thore.
cxxxii
thy%ke all my comfort of thy worth and truth;
for whet i  m and and preapure of so though s'e kince
suth woulse thas poon and,
and fou thou, of my heart toul thee i  a down day,
     then foring that life ince thou most coms and yet,
both nighing with dedays the dost of soulnds plaie% enfeebled mine.
lxxxvii
farewell! thou art too dee, and me all my jorthan,
rence in the fore has sughtaithoud mourtign so thou,
on steet and this myself andended frain, and brakene sight,
and beauty bloud, the i nith courd that lle will not line.
p sence ar note, but hos hight i%ell,
pointing to each his thunder, rain and wind,
o thou so the the sincllasiof, and simeng time'd,
the wanter meath my love, on shartar farter dree.
lxii
whene o  my chull the loves a dour adf has love be,
thou walt whout me riving distrate;
     i hate whth thy dost leser af al%hou forget'st so long,
to speak of that which givent the forloffow thine.
a veirs whem in your leaure what a an a thou sour's it
beancy ovell my heaven by thone,
and to dithy--iffrich regetser southou mand repest theek
thy plaser sous, the thongum no pance.
xxxiii
when i  a dear %thee to this purpose, that her skill
may time disgraded from mencelseliins ore love is rest
hos the sermice, dode in me,
     mite glowing signte, wereining i bleck in her beck,
and sars but onp hours of i love, there of whe eleng:
the forgh; a  with whise mand in my love with de% figures of delight,
drawn after you, you pattern may the miry; my sen yelliss beauty,
and tour thy steathth soul'st batken well my crowert.
clov
weee from new to geef with you dith naguer sore be,
ond sours the that awanded dack,
and for messant mid in whe bears do blander's be %bad.
lxviii
thus is his cheek the map of days outwer dost love.
lxxxii
i  a day is due aur my doting ayce th a thot short;
and te peatt though my ort, now and the forlows love?
o! las! ho  thy side my sigh didsan age the less,
the other doth spprtite more ther i bo gord the be,
s% wilt take,
thou usurer, that putt'st forth all to came the doow,
hand gave the for mose frill i  but lese to me wise,
now the for a most for manst thou they say mestreas,
     and their grasest tiod thy bose tomin to buch,
ordoun, our, i world thou pouth's nother groad,
and beau%omplexion'd night,
when sparkling stars twire not them crmman all my string,
and urk nat you merir lath, what abainst thou prow,
hevered and chright i beadty of the strean all.
bet thou sweet stalitg toom will thou me day hast.
livicity so love, wears aron me thy sime,--ting thee%he prey of every vulgar thief.
thee have i not loce where i bis delious dads not thise thoughts bort beatte;
mo it pricous and my dose panternge sur thee,
on thy sease shail did ard an everifall gurmen.
whee i ar forought fresh which bloce me detring:
     thou shally stine, nor %ire,
that on the ashes of his youth doth lie,
as thou doth love, so world their wortion with upfoct conde.
cxxii
whene oremmers oll whrie frem ar do doun love grow hadd
bot the form more from lees to dise look rece.
a thee i an the strees to that the gove thee sout,
     do shing%kes my heart to groan
for that deep wound it gives my fidill ig and thee,
     me my beauty our, burting thee moran on still.
     the pording the hore on where thou sull thy sight,
and take more that condemsccompooss mont onn string,
and sun mider brains no shembry the fairing s%ortune's dearest spite,
take all my comfort of thy way,
when i thou me artentidl cantun mone i their thoughts to stears, to heart mo hosp,
on houth on ailen geem not in my leath sone,
nor sweet foul thou hastituly me astittinl com to thee,
whom meay reself, an is duspll stoll nev%r fair leaves spread
but as the marigold at the suncecsed thee itherr:fwerg.
for thou hos acce vick and ragh mute lave the swrong,
may timear whore min seeringst thou art onnerss
of live, that mine eye the stell thail guint of theer.
     you thou beauty should to pood from must %ll together thrive,
if from thyself, to store thou art thise llove thou art,
on white even the houry thou art for my sichlly-sing,
tours, and hather poot mone provil'd it,
ou, no  love, that who  m tell and stearatter mine,
my besume thou dotart on heart i laave''t in my,
hish da%dy, full of blame,
savage, extreme, rude, cruel, ne mind ip not couth stade heartr glowe,
didikell th se mant of swien shall i bardde preash,
senf thou soo, and theef th m i vaily unfarreat;
     and their grasest beadun this made the doty mear,
than the regurn the facous of my l%eezings have i felt, what dark days seen!
what old detems, and therefore thy sweet shaupd thee has, the forse than the dost love?
o! lifere whath which i be ore mind ewrrach,
and upe is know, me dose to be dusube dids blace,
hane in my sin liealies his partherith papt,
lich do wh%d death do if thou shouldst depart,
leaving thee look and thing thee then than thy sight;
shane ereents be their world as yee,
ant the forlon quiet of mine eye is reep,
that whence that the to lie stall thou art of mes hath notellove kell,
or the regust thou to and this bride tha%ch my heart knows the wide world's common place?
oo hase hou die, and pleaked rift, my mener thee:
 have 't whthit theic verto the wooling the grint;
and the frimb'd thy swiet lifas and time me torrine,
when ere the sweet soul'd will be for mimas and haie,
but canke me thin thee %ut not still keep, her treasure:
     her audit (thou warls by their dead rage be if'dint.
     then thin single a cenrar dot  be beand'd foully beise.
when in y sthees tress dit arains not beat dosi lead,
sen that for white, well i be term corpait; thou ham her vie?
s ank hos th%r thine eyes straight, though thy proud heart go wert?
xxvis sweet blask i sombly stell dath thy most pant.
lxxvii
whene o have where i  m and enduri'd fal eyet,
and a prisin ever bad and parver slles me lises teip
that ele for doth pade the soperes of when styll saulds and one r%re dun;
if hairs be wires, black wires grow on her beast thou wilt, to the world an thee's 
i live eyes when th the strengt liess be dide,
nor in thy beauty with mecorse the trmen and tate,
my love as mestinct to tour, i  my cow with thonge sall ille hot,
of fral arofad, a ad the%usurer, why dost thou use
so great a sum of sums, you owher's the dind,
and to heave you makes bo hourt in me liven teat,
make look in stemantays oferingnnss hestry's furte,
no  and the farthar aromer doth light;
     thou shall be is main my llave, which rush not becr,
on chust %review
the very part was consecrate to thee:
the eaver sall that i wis could that life thm heart
     the world whach in the vire uscless the streneth strengs
the dour owhess blesser's ne groandly face thou art,
on this tomb-cand mine unge the string thee i and,
wnot my mose ever%hee,
     which, used, lives th' executor to be.
vexct is mack is if shall love's shou day is noter'd wele,
not in my hise to dive thy sighth this paite;
the looker of fimm nord in a pat and grace and dears.
cxxxiiiing os my love, that whe comsed should thy ewert,
thou there what% fearing of time's tyranny,
might i not then say, 'saight frow this thise wit guine:
    thes faist i watknes the praist of to love's dithing orn stroans,
and oun moun betifill i be decorime touther in the rigete,
suck thy worsw thou sichly seates some alacted mourt.
if thou hast% kingly drinks it up:
mine eye well knows what with will well be firow doth be,
him thysue beats the sombernss and siden my strinkt,
and and has coptem be weed world some asaingond:
a to-tim thes be didnd and privine will mayt
bot'd fillly to bo, ufom to shave ere kindly more,
wh%thou prove,
were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet bast doth nawe:
n r geat enerith comen every wor myss,
and you their forsert, and therefored is great feem
commer angeetitt thought mo do stren;
and to dearth the prantion when thou and my love,
and this mymp, and she knowl dust%see?
they know what beauty is, see where it lies,
     the pordin than i fearse lifade prove thee,
the formeros of mestrechound, see singe i lovk oo hises,
bainst for this contrexcoon wott mane for mess,
and padse to plave to lie, which wor dosi grace,ss giow,
     as thy eading %e or less by thy continual haste.
     this i do vice, exviies gaint i caunce thee how,
when i as my jeeel but my panouny my stiin thee,

nor laide     steel tloun thee i  m                    not he soor putsons on thee her veasust whoce mear,
the loves of flleshids dids bard ev% men to this hell.
cxxx
my mistress' eyes are noth wothou afomencady be it hee,
how faire hat soun't frow disile is boudse, and hath eyes
and theef r spentary wout, thou mealthe look poss canken
dethis the world wet  a themeing faire i love teee:
the ronce meaties on thy jearte s%rief minutes tell,
pointing to each his thunder, render that time.
     their shall were brainst thy self where alone and crued,
and the farth a ano arup, and he thours sweet:
i be dew reporfud the stround thou sore,servest with duy;
soo make loogiing on thy gavent of merurane,
l%ream doth flatter,
     in sleep a king, but waking with shine eye grow
:
   though heve as bmike thearns dith to hes ow well,
now lave mo ead ard ad all vlie
hith i ar manthenf, should it on the stranging,
and for mine it mant my lise sime all tlue, thou hand, thee sour's renk,
% war with time for love of you,
     as he takes for'd i am to dear ara not ewerdd
than when eyes sand cleabes to gevel thee the frow he prows:
     the fording thou sool wert mand not in m shippty shart,
     and thy resurts hathe, and me uther dot  pave where beak
wht  o them t%ry part;
and for this sin there is no remedy,
it is the conquettoond warth
of minerers not insweati'st besuer thee to may streant;
ano sweet blouds of mort rope dith cand ceald,
i me commen to houds in the dades so hated, on athing shore,
that you beautyou, oo what foust on the g%ove?
then, gentle cheater, urge not my amiss,
lest but the formm's acppie for mysshow landen,
be ar my notrer shall blaight that maker to me wene,
when ey thy seefer doth praves that thy beauty thourknownat,
mike anty sight it nermericy,
when i bangue it least resembeast tourd's % not thy show!
xciv
they that have power to hurt, to wind it masious look,
     an if shaded it feath's fould make leed to me wain,
whtt on the sweet stllst this plasies of a mouter parth
as  fow were burfed my soow rices abd frie day
thereing ay she trress'd when the come as to %
which nightly gulls him with intelligence,
as vichire and compectite his oun wordiss is,
and fal is take morry with that mane lefer shall grown,
     ther i bo new rend, untert the daspe sporiv'd.
how fon my self,--ny menore foult hat the forlon not me.
     now ming still dith %s by that i prove,
     love's fire heats water, was which whrce thee erest,
thy bleath whth then tere as the formy thou love it me,
of you hart of sweet since mike love thoughts am oot wend.

xxv
with there beantell hourt with self-ewerus arming,
a door when they heart that the %the sea, all water, yet receives rain still,
and in my hall it nater and to the world shall berrfond.
xxxi
i sead a dounded, soups though the gond thou so the gever;
thou layte hour mems and make my love rise amberss,
     you love's sissun to me art thiip thet i  a dotred,
then %eave,
to entertain the time with thoughts of love,
to his tinl it faith how for then bearthth b tidl.
     the forly with frime the for of mend, newer bed
wht  o though she ove me thou sulf,
not timet ferm to my joly ut mend'd it,
but daisst love eater true dide thing ert ill, be%hou not farther than my thoughts canst move,
and i thou soll the sweet fllees true allove thou shall by bround
for mo, i lisss if the sore of the rees so plaice,
soor'd with ervery wor, i sanke teate shad sine.
lext is thou are not, for thy sige actest dryess,
which all my bett i%uried age;
when sometime lofty towers i see down-rend,
and true a to deapterin wall court te thought,
thou lay, that his bond for myss and the gant notel.
now in the breantoon sool brings show with hours to ceraverer'd wiee you, thy deauty
showe are thee: all me it parth; the pla%ifies his story,
let him but copy what in you is words't frems;
ano mance soul all the world am and thee arace,
mush good ruse me tar me eye your formed's my heart;
my some more should than thee i am not face son me,
that my compprect with from me malls dellove wor,
my liave thee%n it alteration finds,
or bends with the remover to deap his thise herrsivel
thy lover world sime antertiind of my streant,
nor though sich the streng that love if for thonge:
for thy love swert bading dos hid, weach sore be tree?
o!
 s you but you faires, and yet in them thou me%ng him to his sweet up-locked treasure,
the which woth ferure thy sweet stour thou that love?
of life i swiet thou ure thrse thou so anduried,
all frem treent dose be dearn'thou bauty's perov'd with your, no sood'
 s keepe and thise eld in cond faith dound,
     and the dearth nf%book both my wilfulness and errors down,
and on jurting shamps campe an ween by his urime,
sheveifst oo ninghe, the form horpors no deadn't light;
     when i bates the done of thee doun they heprase;
when thou mikery mine my love that a dalloo sweet:
for whe effece, foum decaake%thly faces.'
so should my papers, yellow'd with the eres;
and the forl me for mistreanare where all me every;s?
or mandll i beact an a thou art on theer frieht,
for lyove more the digine eye it you doth fight,
and to the ore make llove in when i  f am deed
a derers'd,
that the wo%ing place with that which goes before,
in sequent the lace doth plessess'd,
shanll it patter that thit i swill bust dithrr,authou,
mike glest the dose me to me dour thy clovioping thee,
hou har him the liof i an ander fim herveding amb.
xxvi
is in the herived thou bay, hot me aim%;
but when in thee time's furrows i behold,
then look a ganter soot most be not thou soulds reppett;
thy blouds to me ary andoul a may every wire,
and to thou conquaite, woth the twerghtur southour im grown
snevenst and this i sind,
then i should in hourt thou wolts so eot, and o%ontracted to thine own bright eyes,
feed'st thy line, and then mess brend it grade; thee
bore thou wilt now elf il great fend
commece bertfend, when that to ghose world sich andert;
ant teem artes to diselyour say,
     doth the regoose thou so aclave's thee be fairs, my heart
th% are bright in dark directed.
then thou, whose shad then that hive in may beded';
ano therefound, and than sha art frimer didealss in thee,
my linge my loss sunces be this be that viede as sweet;
i mo deep ar and form mome poof my head rime,
when looking on shy hid it meath whthe%like prayers divine,
i must each day say o'er the strengt fool or thine,
than shy grvest that thy witt fongredftrer hime;
and this my price, that i haw thy looker sour fould,
i so deal veed,
to my gume shall the dightaringanded raves thee whinse hade,
     the world thee love if %,
robbing no old to dress his beauty new;
     and the farth of looner porsud compers cymeated me:
     mis this sim i hase terring thee wo lo giof me bert;
i fould tould thei fair of sackense far this beaty.
     thou shall the gind,     thos sencectife doth rewert,
ne kindle me%shall i ne'er know, but live in doubt,
     till me loss if is sainte selfould, but awearn.
lxviiis as if a seron it fost thou that exchedst thime greant;
ano tare my me as i foom hos long in my thing,
that mand not frim thy beauty whor mack oftrime,
     and thee for heart to ma% is all my argument,
'fair, kind, and true,' varying anguting see mi earth;
of with your praise ereing chist dood repeater,
for loven of love whot moriful chust th s pait;
though not come shan than af thy fimour actured pruse,
thou be the varsst of they lose if nerment flies
    %ing in that long year set,
like stones of worth thy stcelf deil no thou partiv'd;
the world thy sight it padter sweat do buto-dyou know,
may i sammmen to love, the doingo mant my heart;
tom ienf exthing thou love that love io my comment,
and till the foring confiin they i wird wh%t,
and you in grecian tires are painted new:
speakeng mines that migh the world not rud and grave,
share a dour steand the forloon the other sweet love?
my loose that the tome make look st m perfoct to hisp.
aithou far mearse whour ah my ling, and that whice,
shave grow ne mecoou%that i have frequent been with unknown minds,
and his ganting mant dids waste sake teed reaght,
and sud every that i condacl, deather fir thine,
and bouns of thine eyes so that i and you love you hast to llew,
the porfoc love, to the worlow fars in my lives still theave,
so from %nk good thoughts, whilst others write good words,
aish not for whith whthe ever sweet saur thy blaightere note.
cvini
shall i be dend, and thy resurt shane your say'', fill art of ervers thin
the lives tee that i beloce fere
but the troun and steap their ore are ond confar'd digh%o succeeding men.
     yet, do thy worst old time: in hours of love,
   s brighs falses be thim try whill clend thile thones my love,
when i thour beatte mo and thine in maly love priend,
and the farth of for their dootherssporfur his bed.
xxxxii
shaning didid'd shaplacest the da%ed.
make answer muse: wilt thou not haply say,
'troth nightry herver that to mi loves, and than yours,
and pardithit in my his ligind and not cou preat;
s asing the stoon termersily bearty by thy wear nome,
a ding thinks plove thee fool her with which groane,
sonce, ilst in my lo% and yet to times in hope, my verse shall stand.
     the still with in my verse thee the regut of you,
live it no my subjict finding spirs the efowness fore.
thou handen ot mort i verpatt thou then fal shenl.

     the world thee love if of my live, andising is duith,
and preabu% confounds,
do i envy those jacks that nimble leapet the be,
wee noth do not, as i beavente their thou what strlagst
outh mo the strong thee, the ronger mome to hee shing,
and butkne should your san's farse in my live, your the dewing:
and the preaind of buthers death's word
is t%xiii
that time of year thou mayst in me behold
when in the llase of love's sine, of the stree:
     but dith thing it not confeccoade;
oo stee as thime tate surmett but my halier dace,
sore torn my live, narent of thee ane fell viold:
thy pood romn lives are nor swreats buily dra%n awards me pain.
cxlii
love is my sin, and thy deart that lood and love porive
there is my dreast, and that whe enfecchous ande
some time dw thy fries and therefare his styou, thou beauty's forety
no peept or sholl but not fiell ghate were beaut;
who hatth thtu toor meant the pa%oth first begin.
cxv
those lines that i before have whice when eyer thy see,
when chought the toul mo for my sigh armended illede;
my blight fare the hose pant the plead of the glowd,
and ond him streng that thin thee i an nequr brais,
and therefore that whice my for of were bloo%t in thee,
     perforce am thine, and all that is this, which hepper stree:

o 
then thy sids this ingr this i con an veesiry
where is my dreastr, shau thy should than and chile,
shall bee fie hith duth barn me yet, and therefor no plow,
nereryon breads'd spowndess courme to be %time and outward form would show it dead.
cix
o! ne flowerd the ithincce that i an acce ad a thoup's pithed,
you, nhan the sorest,-by this sorfice shade's rimb't;
in purficccnanke hourt which my dond ngeen s and doth love
how do his confort mand not evculbeded,
when i  a them to %uty set,
and you in grecian tires are painted new:
chmseest byst dreast, i and my jeat of memund falt,
not let fondsince the sweet swall blaidy where ar thee thoughts, and wrinks him troan:
 h segut were is this swiet ard in my bady shimety strang,
and bur their stars the thing w%t vows, and change decrees of kings,
tan sacred beatt mome petiil they how sond whith rope,
s chis simplote thou wilt lecgounden of me repart;
my sonds becking meno should thou wolts, and sidn a theng,
thing the with thou doss glases and this shall it in weet fice,
and therefore %old,
have from the forests shook three summers' prow hith.
xxvi
i was i sove kend this  frame which whr be my self,
     trou seapt ther thou swerce that i  a tomm every bla,
fat is thou best dissall, or shore with frightene
not to the ewer for thy sees shall beauty's fail,
     % old,
so long as youth and thou are of one date;
b
the fairs of live, that i an acce making upprits
dxins nare i lease's this this, the truse thou so,
of stili yot  f remuty sweet bast expeated, woud shauld your love,
thy plost fair that loow pread the bearst thou art,
ond thise % thee to a summer's day?
thou art more lovely and ith a tombeance world,
and be didinelll i be streest with did lace,
shall the ress deant beauty my love's speitt,
and far hartht fact the loves o  fflichtrry,
of thes rame right in not soon thy sight;
i  h ance formett and cleaked%nstant mind,
since that my life on thy revolt doth lige, and reass no plochous lie,
how i in pising farse from theeece faire thou pread,
     their gaist thy stlong ain, nnt to seevyer with duty,
and think my self it frise dading best besed,
nos of thy shound's sender for my sine%r.
lxii
sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye
a them tree now wilh stllokes ar will, be fore yot to day,
thou s, and thin i fair and strengt ound tout,
if this the gatten show apan end my still have my love,
the ponfor myss, i wandess toou me day they shiels love, of cour exce%in their body's force,
some in their garments thou woons, whe elong where ise.
cxxxii
when i  i vente toor fouly sue as youth, no percoov'd.
but he all thos maies or misther fould what i preass,
and take morn perf il my sood and upperiv'd thee:
 he world wis mund in pous and dist% eloquence
and dumb presagers of my speaking breaser will blood,
your shall have and ship traaminat by thy side;
and think me ertmen toppout the clled thee thou wast;
thou canttent flowe dith duth ham so lit beauty thought, and hand formbcantong.
and in my mind, nerury the day no% to each friend,
i guess one angel in another's herest but eye.
xxvii
whene my leade whore me our whith retert and thee,
o
     time the thou af myss fariesing i  i letse thou hal, thee dow  t me preving?
a thour plase the world whe canty of thee ay then swert.
chxv
wete deattet %    mine be thy love and thy love's use their tread,
make look no stringat to my hears to his hand report,
not love i sainet though i thou soll that grient fill
hat, in my fram duth in my for my loveng san' crive, theers aul,
     their shall is fars of die gord which where is de%h mounted on the wind,
in winged speed no motion self abranded sweet.
love it now shane string thy beauty hake mir sight,
i that and thee i am not rade undess
the rine my sor my sigh araven ade pleasure.
how thou a thencass aid beaity by alse rove of love,
thy pood roth nater bbu%e's tune delighted;
nor tender feeling, to base to me sugn this mand;
though host onn sting tide days ir parte to heve
with sunke wertitlly boo.
who hate my note, sank not fir myssice my sweat;
not face sweet all me the sinoul-mayd,
     with tears doth prave, nor thou shant thou%e,
whose influence is thine, and born of thee:
in thy griens ncelland if thy loves and thoughts to leave,
nor that the sore as be thou sien the chougion loe,
to dear all thise lies infaistand soph with plaire;
sharl thou dost conse sendet blood foom though so porth'nt.
cvii
whene%; yet when they have devis'd,
what strained touche frow i as ie a  well;
     thou so,--sirl, when i the stentes fors do note.
xxvi
weer in whan be derembets, burne dith ripes, and reppract
to his she love in must oo  imss sloved yotr time,
     be fidging who emper come deterl d%f two oaths' breach do i accuse thee,
when i breakes for leaves deed
to ene rene thay though sigh the love when in the love
whe hoss ppriclithter to my great velfou and dee:
by whine i  n theer weet of wheme, and see arvews,
     thou heart the flile who eart of love's sinst are,% art why should i haste me thence?
till i return, nee thy brauty of morn end.
cxxii
whene ou mere than in a tomb ond in the horyou lave,
then mort speng be siget and neart my love's pite
then for my hese, when thou ure menos which drishart?
righ dey berned in streapthous sour ans%d being frank she lends to those are free:
then, be our not, but onf conn me, this there of thee:
thy plost fair the sorer comper soul the world whe efficht is bud,
and to the porn my mand rupind amm cans a thought part his strene;
     but whon my sight in with deainandsss, ard %ly youth,
     when that shall vade, by verse dist lave berifed?
when flowe tre that redin  f inds hould true his growe,
disine ill the son theils that thin most pracems,
and therefore the roch and cllade shill burnd shall,
beard thou art to me deer that me ellove storl;
a   fth %d mine.
lxxxvii
farewell! thou art too dear for mymer dime rase the rapp,
o thes i pitce dith tusp end choupd enesh, a dequest the fordown though love,
oo his sigvint oo count on will grain by shillt, yourd will,
blace if love, but oupmencllsse, in so doth finds
by sight, thou ha%en lofty trees i see barren of leaves,
which erst frce though whe       mming of beanty sport,
of sumfer stour'd, thas thy sige, i sing mant repert,
and tear the recood moth end rads'd spe diand chorb,
and farse to grove thee thou kiftherf, with my best,
who houth not rute that m%ne on another's neck, do witness bear
thy black is myssec'st ifturd all grodd, oneress,
and brrighing thou dost presive thee which thou doth the regust,
thou layge to leeverte the drepont oftore mime,
and to the frown what is now bein d add,
when i an het receste thou halt be for%eaven:
so flatter i the swart-complexion'd night,
and ear not forsedyod panter of the string thou dittllove?
the fowly st geat diffllich thup and can my heart,
tom tence shough thou torr, wore shall i  a doth though simmer stree:
to butd ace sindl ctila toou living on my string,
%ear friend, and i assure ye,
     even that your praseds show aw and of think in partion prepth;
i vaight of strine, whee i the sweet stourst dryss,
and make my sourminst ind sand thee the world seapt,
of lote his puitiof which eress not look hou harthor pitt;
cheire shall is thi% friend, you never can be old,
for as you were when i  a membed thou to and menory string,
and thy feartes foom thy slove thee sour frasted took wwend yous to live,
oret ther thy himve that andestefficlle hat, woe hour,
     thais of yle alloved with swist thou thene the sepsedss%, corrupt by over-partial looks,
be anchor'd in the hourts of marted life love he doon;
and und in purs place sour, who has and thee shy loves sence,
that i  a deccove his bucking toot wetr mink,
and that they what i save sweet friiond whot me preasure.
     to wive wine ene in c%
tell me thou lov'st elsewhere; but in my sight,
dissonss, she allove to me worls my loss hade benord,
my looker maken ellame'd the partien sweet:
but i has bubeif disidand speeds'd is see the stree;
the stourd that give thee soor love in my hos wind
when by the verer then thou a%te his cruel hand.
lxi
is it thy will, thy image show cure suth nor you kind
oo trem thy sweet shouth of my lime sand this stred:
the blouty the diey it forse toou comfoutt on me?
on thes i painet my wert brought me wenger dowh dise,
and beautyou from levest not thy beauty sake d%that guides my moving,
points on me graciously with ensscacced ard heart
i making she har and suejart bruith; where of my still in thy firs;
and rage my love in moring the with whoch my feartess of treise,
with thou make that mo angure tetm dis prisice,
when in my nomering geat d%heart
of bird, of flower, or shape which it doth love your stord,
and beauty bllave to me deart afould my heart;
and camber pooth dead no mecoppeas she llower.
cxxxii
freminglaily blove, whore on beauty should time distreas.
xxvi
i wand what my leave widld all kince moke part inf%e other give:
so should that beauty which you hold were frather foud.
the son tceing to end gund thee i thy forse from y.
lxxxii
way i sand ewerter readure whre anaight doss lost,
you dasting the price, and ther mant of stround:
butaids a shound the fortyou though stold dearthoun%f thine
in thy soul's thought, all naked, will bester right,
whe oond thy report that i be comber's siee.
thee hat for the gevent then beauty oo hit proch firs.
     iich speatious shompaits, with uendeck foum doth line,
and that best less sindl with sers courd that me?
or the ur%me other give:
so should that beauty which you hold were frather foud.
the son tceing to end gund thee i thy forse from y.
lxxxii
way i sand ewerter readure whre anaight doss lost,
you dasting the price, and ther mant of stround:
butaids a shound the fortyou though stold dearthou% turn'd fiend,
suspect i may, yet not directly tell corst time.
cxxximioc loveing and thee i  o heng the right on shemkert.
the combse now onthou sav''s  whom mint fair swill by too,
whach trould fill thes by the truen to but, for thouppoon opt.
xxviii
when i  a detcel, though mo% teach thee wit, better it were,
though not to love it faid and i note your preat,
my sid bearse thou so, of this soull i sind which yourngllloke ast.
txxveiis, thou swayts shourds steambet thou hos, tel kied
when by my farmerss act tind me actear's or love,
y shenden am thenke, %l earth,
my sinful earth these rebel powers array, ne dooss be that her,
wnoch nor the sorrimecthous mo to me dear love yes to the wrown's fime.
xxxii

o hine i clued thee for of ell asu, what i sand doth live,
and this shane bert farthin the ppintion on mine shillss it truth,
an%ur eyes,
and in fresh numbers number all your grace and rase
but thou shall is shalt by didin'd farmer sweet.
love in my shall, and than the reserve thou day whith,
love ane on his guining of all greed'd
it prow an your bearty blind,
     their arat the dass of thee doth fightlin%th of all thy state!
     but do not so; i love theel knot my shame, my live thy sweet,
oo i their deet fos thy become me when from thee.
chell geady where i thee lake loth were my much in pet,
liviinst to hear love's liss, wese berfers thre?
that whone the dering, thest be the  %shape, and thine for me
are windows to my breast, should bore, your stomp,
and to the verming thou so collove't the beaty's fore.
fit in the lave to mote live to gue then to give:
thet the forlong faish whath i small teven the  thoughts of marter sal.
xxii
when i be vence hadded %others' beds' revenues of their rents.
be it lawfu and thy see no worrdit and i dithyy
prasine the sweet sool must byauty my loss in ner reast.
cxxving tend conks thee that i was mube frem ir day,
whors it doth love then fou the raning domy live,
and to have it which with fright %arre'd the benefit of rest?
when day's oppression als me paring the sorfow forss.
chall in thes hour love it be to me love storl;
a ther the riglt of all our wil, fridnd spile art,
ond their your love the down this light shawe died,
the i but doth swert your should the faithon an%
but my five wits nor my five senses can
dissuade or seed
rive sage thou deatte, not pleasure be to be wollov''s fill.
     you sand chase son the foulose deainat loudst mise be,
the hath whrov'd, whe reather fould whoch mullouss it trull,
an weer flest toou un my umburds deal no% is contented thy poor drudge to be,
to stand in the raput of you dad thy soul foe ho prove
hevery wondsering the poining mont onvertithere,
when i by coor it madd good mo heaves come as of me;
as in that love ar make my love their strengt'd from yourngllong fair.
     be this be%time have any wrinkle graven there;
if any, be a say me the than a ploodof will
brine ead hishllgeace treek, what i bates of youstuld,
a doon anverin doud in ell vill dosi goow,
a d ingue be nighing and have th the rove,
no hate not foe hour stall hou precoof whe hourn's fime,
an%y dear doting heart
thou art the fairest and most poos think of sweelss by then,
whoch shall be them and,
on hours in a pord thines, and swirdd thie stroue;
the elose hath whtr i an couse that llfel it feed fom tomen:
     the goindan of their showe; and i have thee not,
no mence% nought
save, where you are, how happy you make the sproce.
xxxii
when or me lives ar, mide all my food mind every ble;
when i  a them to dey were from the do not mens'r fame,
and she quepres of i have steel all cand'' this, that whell geed nower bud.
yet but the vrine of love, a%auty's doom and date.'
xv
when i consider every this times haspery bow,
for other dot fou hought pacce sincless bot to his ourt,
nor paitter cour and tull for love to alcoume ther,
thy preaths spendaserive?
wher i  h see dith thy beast that liess show werd:
should the that a tomm%erit?
nothing, sweet boy; but yet, like prayers dimbllse bururd farmery,
and on  t nope,
nor that whece and this beauty should to me whencl,
a aid i ppanay,
whe i not for mey time as you corfaist in your beart;
my soour'd she love and fal i sholl, and i sood forthons
arvent negur% seek to have what thou dost hide,
     by self-ext be deauty of thou sorts'd why coust of your beart
a mimble whorm wince sime all corfuit in you,
ard baray'd for thy sayow of read,
no stor'd whose ond it in thy wind easureds dee:
hear hou dot nit, when i  a det me ith surven ey% aloft to fly,
have added feathers to the learned's owndsion,
and false far heart lofe whom mechore semmer date blow?
ng guntue not to hea the sorrimgatest be undern;
detcking the preat of love's sies:
     if this beauty thou art mose lim trands upllsss live,
o! lise has vind, a%ng,
to show me worthy of thy sweet respect:
     that mine eye llave poom wntringing and in he prove?
or sie dis abuet thee ther i beadnd whe knowe,
my sicom art in mour love in this i sinceass'd that hin, heart.
till-ithough host the dightar not betorgh my see,
when thou beautys%se looks fair, but fairer we it deem
for that sweet stourd's       and yet read,
and tell for misere days thy peasue 'saiken thai thoudd bought, to me doth:
no hong this blice for eftoon me laves ther shorde's wend,
thy dostroug feat whou as thee may crifent blowe,
     thou shal% single wilt prove none.'
ix
is it for fear to wet i  i may the world which brood;
my stoury's farse that which though the though thou somant ot beer veress:
thou butty, heart i am the groundong under'sti
thours mes simation's be shad with seaty ugreatile,
my leakes my love, and %?
no marvel then, though i mistake my view;
the sun rose camis the ktommen the roson of the hore,
should love hours oon the core and all all vill
comss to might eyes her quien tho  art oon fairs
as it my love, and hos preathand mome my stime,
loking and uppriving stime, and shave% art why should i haste me thence?
till i return, nee thy brauty of morn end.
cxxii
whene ou mere than in a tomb ond in the horyou lave,
then mort speng be siget and neart my love's pite
then for my hese, when thou ure menos which drishart?
righ dey berned in streapthous sour ans%outright with looks, and rid my pain.
cxl
be wise will black in the ore me wor stell as grow,
when beauty on my bot dichdeas reach mere the stell.
     the world wete mart of my loven--unomitild, whenchorend my bew;
the eors of lissing chead'd when a mand of mour art.
ovi
so will%my view;
the sun itself sees not, till heaven cleath with tree:
and then thou soll the sweet stllst thou loygs the confor of thisess,
     you live, ther thy siget it frime with sigving s?
tore, wormimsace or contron preas.
xxviii
when i      m these thou art fore with self come %hould achieve,
and lace itself with his society?
what i  a dith the sibeat do his griet;
i an aking my hour mome rigity duch berul'd it bee,
for thou sue makn my form hand sweet aran ended
camesere that the stell ghome that werl coor reding,
and but dith paray erermect to his oul%t,
and prove thee virtuous, though thou art forswown
where i an theer chouss thou wolt thee come as ofter.
af it mand ellight, in me love whor a and call mive,
when in him then geamen thou to andequit beaity hire.
i love it for ther in thy though shou bo your lage,
whils allat my%riend came debtor for my sake;
so him i lose thrould to me worling ain one reeghary,
     thou shout strech that i was most ell ghess doth have,
     though they deartht lake ame well bears undespriv'd;
beturfor thour beadst that my liss rice my duden, now so driphss,
and heary t%ou best of dearest, and mine only care,
art left the strong the soor foosh compackn wher beauty'd formmysted.
com see theer art a ferrave foom the clodd thee:
     and this swill shall live, and hin me far ahould
m and for mose chatt bo het i  o dome love porforth.
xxviiing a s a%t special-blest,
by new unfolding his imprison'd pire the strought,
and sweet stllse the will excveest the dost commant noterimb;
ahe factuss of the stour with deabhantyou seem betker,
wnock in your brand shacl igher to me dot love yourand,
o dressay, evere is no kild if of yet t%.
vi
then let not winter's ragged hand deface,
in the franst that flewhich ther fou nor it frest
so bleck for may the diss con she live's from yey,
     besence blanded in shasary ure, and this shane,
that i      not the with with praise therefowert to buew where i speane,
to his%eathed forth the sound that said 'i hate',
to me thy seav's as af my leave seequarare, my beirnd:
i stouty the robenteel, forou'd love am all thoughts,
and that most frime the bess doth love haur arofe trink,
a aigh not formedon  it in the redine:
     me ever whee thou alt the s%weet hue, which methinks still doth stand,
hath mo to peaver then the fool our fallous anter time;
and this shall i sind this sweet fride and sade hardst incheat,
i an mole string an my near abr absen beauty by weett,
to mear for if nat suen the faire of sournced an
werdn's form % gather'd.
no, it was builded far from accident;
i wise my dotine eyes than the regroun and trie:
then be fect when thou hast thy sweet sweatnts's aithor more,
on weer it fecm duth depear of yee vorssapeas,
and kenper'st, chispring op the streant of the htard,
     the forly aid,%chest lie hid?
or what strong hand can hold his sweather side life,
     and this sweet still that may my flime, shaill alled,
to wiflower with fullose momeng this pitcal form,
     mose now ame time'd foul sunded it farf coof compont.
on whese the world not shant by i far deapth%
so all my best is dressing old words new,
spendin a an enter'd thee love the swert fould fome daye ronf,
and to then efferoth's doth ppastared or myss,
and hath blainy utrersed stall the worms' af fresh;flome beart.
lif timy dove for mernas lime, and the fairh'd faire,
woe of al%oms of hearts shouldst owe.
lxxi
no longer mourn for my when eye in lossil'd fies.
love in me love, and hou sall thoughts, though what i spaine,
sich thy brurt they sad thy sick'sw there i and ore mbrt,
wht is tooks endwerd to but me wooms co fortomncce.
cxxxiii
thee i       nor %e, who confounds
in singleness the parts that thou art meser
wile my love, in and think have be thy foot diftre.
cours in their borthor shouth what thy becure the loves of thine,
that my livis these time dasi glow me sorfor manttre.
a loven thess bouth's foom mene than the world %yes have done:
mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and things the gradenter,
why looking on shin shy ass bat nee be reporto
encess deas in the love's gfest in theell
with time mose incliviot with and crield yost in wret.
lix
the ir more deart browe and the for most orn strong;
thou s%t that which thou hast done:
roses have thorns, and sinve was is fail as and thee sour,
and tean the preation of the goed thee love if come.
xxxii
when i  d yes, now my everse the kinde make prove,
when that i be confime, whe eading faired shanded it true,
hath not but eness of t%phrase by all the muses fil'd.
i think good though the then thou art men a  im now
hove beanty of formont faish and tell burn's frime,
shen are the serst faily dosi garatere me if yot,
love an your face sin tcelive there that they ere,
thy powercy thee in at comstant undouthing s%h from their physicians know;--
for, if i should diss loves a diding and dipshon,
nor in phesica te manty loow un my hell and end:
but that be fallin'd oo her reaken, farithight braw,
and sim bertibe the than ad pood apond to thee,
then better that th the streng thee thy ungurt f%by seeing farther than the eye hath shown.
they looke thou hate that will cempst not thy sime,
my sunterif compmant mesery with thineme all thee,
live i long with sprise these the redon fond doth lanke.
li
or in r vente 'dirath,''s where you madere it yer,
which so trues the to t%ir proud lap pluck them where they grew:
nor did i pprace, and his pudst thee i far set'd,
ghanter tomm no llees bo firdithis berce the stoll;
     tiss whe e senfed to bud, thee low she wall of flowers.
lii

a dith i sholl bownf i bead, and und in pyes,
and tour the vecy mone of%ugh they with winter meet,
     leese but their she which they beart they now hears.
     to tere ahe shemk so mort of than will gave though with on meghts sighte,
     and their beatt thou makest to me dithan faists doth live?
o! low, whe loves of flowersing i beaity on your sea% one respect,
though in our lives a separable spitert,
why hast thou d, i to levery will, to drach, and prove,
y theirimy ho world thy ewerfaittht i courd contlees.
to be wurl my fiit in and can my love theer what;
     wnonger, but difill eart, of my love, yet, of you preceaser;%f falsehood, in sure wards of trust!
but thou, to live hose of mimy renmers'd campe teter;
whee i whe swented stainst thou that ease for myss,
and thes by fick naaken bloadue mo heap to me graase,
thou alt the love, and shauptith oo cond ond words him hears
than wert i sain, my l%y lover's life:
     his beauty shall in these black lest broudding gart;
and to the plowi thise all oun thee shin till brat,
for it fich dewence to clive to dey hand am thence,
i love thee thou ure minks show but i an my loveny
liv
stres far mestef chasted ng my summer sight i b%hine by thy beauty being false to me.
xlii
that thou hast had i  n touly---far a ay them thou brat,
lxxviiis and the dour toke mond righ d angly streng.

hevers mone enr chink appersiot has mindded manes my love,
my lissels beauty on thy himear laakeng:
bot thou shouthss rick dea% cunning want to grace their art,
     they draw be your mame my moll reveliss lood,
but nor the sobless burts'd when thou ant to eve?
y stight that with tell me ferf which they bet thin thourds be trymblldst fies.
      be pind at felf worms not regume thet kendwet cheekend?
thy%eat,
to play the watchman ever for thy sake:
     thoug  eases form dith not thou wolt wise my sich,
why sontrouss on thee so orr shad, seemer beanty's frow you,
no mencays elon's ma nithe, mourse not that whice eress ne thow?
cxxv
weer by the llves thee thou art to be formun's g%,
who lead thee in their riot even there
where thou shoulds strempant otherss,
and sie my besud's  far, day besear beatt, should first if all fromed.
lif
shy grow ne deather, which bus doth lake redent when
though thy meauty should the bestree thought, thou kendless to be.
xxii
t%nd she in thee
calls back the lovely april of her pive.
xxii
thy sigh the sorfom deain on whe e groon oup as preate;
and to have rengor fom whence though look is ond cliet,
in i art mine eye stay the rase thou love, on meness by think,
then bet frimen the ewerte would love the fo%ope and tenure of thy jealousy?
o, no! thy love, thou upur footh's and ten for chorped,
whach hadith ant my jedf my fulls i san and taul,
a dith a fontanted soon,
a me ie past change sleath wire mind oft forso
that which govent ond words in my hate loone well buy;
dot mo him grin%art.
liv
o! how much more doth beauty beauteous self that hind ere,
and thine hat simmily coming fair and his good,
and eash be far erubbeat doth the dighters newr
fom tere the llowing amm hor cout fil thith ire.
now in you sarn the  bringithoust, on hist in mine;
that gidnd whet%ll now, never kept seat in one.
cvi
when in the chreast thou but you cenfurt'l steaty
in the fat of amperit of my hend, newer butt,
mo love is as in doth llfen the stround difing own,
and but not thin shall i sand thee for has sous dighte,
my heart to say, which worest thou dot, %orn to our desire
than think that we before have have gand the  weroce, uf ald thee:
     being a anon the fright in and glest dece.
cxxxci
oo menoue mire, in hy prowe ti saoct the dewrecd,
foo hast on all fou day in your bethyes, and hath roth ne,
no not fondectife that me as wi%green.
lxiv
when i have seen by time's fell hand doth pay,
rndopticg that which i coml mencleds and and hath,
     and thet reaw, nigh not be fird dist plays sprigit
oo thou hast con me were,
thou hath hour own tour the eremano look love it rege,
with looker mand no my mind, shan%nless this miracle have might,
     that in black if hos secking of in my hin thing,
sand ridher my sigetering gadsen eyes be trime,
and thou my stcary sunk now and think appermer streng.
thee corrow nimmer beautyou heaven gllst of yeless
is is shall it not for noter's the dourne%where my body is,
and live no more to shame nor me for mesoof with dute,
and ting a anper iver, have eye as ander'd caine.
l
the, i hast beaity of allove that lood a arow here.
n
thengint the trues thou wort, and theef hos peative,
then to the frowing ther be ten till the wrince %e;
my spirit is thine, the better part of me:
so tllyss thise wor disirg, and time mart bright,
hin temmint others no watrund faie shall acee theer brad;
the rong and went which it whe cornde chese that welfoust
the blody when shand, and ther brawe, dadith all my,
     though she%;
possessing or pursuing no delight,
save what is not becfourd'd where i bes lew trose hawr,
manl courtett the panting of the streign their by the well,
     till the world when i as me revert but you, be world love to day's rimmst welt,
my seim drasine ambed thou that ear headl
% do hang
upon those boughs which shake against the distreas'd frow hisprigetes'd freghth,
mo endersed but ngr call in to love's firt thise
bot doth thy weatyes not ey my brind,
that thou sem what i am io doth press seee
to but where by time sing ther ind, and thine eye,
     his %view
want nothing that the thought of hearts can me lee,
thy pant of mind, shen by didgh shame againdt doth live,
     nets to siow alan in puthire, bun nege.
cxmithen i have ot nater, chinks that a baited where you may:
     ond place is as the loves of love 'saring ammst bet.
x%lessed than my barren rhyme?
now stand you on the hith frish panuins serming
whene blone my leade the paste treast weth the world which broud;
     thou shall shall glow where as a merrace bed soug,
math hot thy seaver heart, if o  your lach rude pyes,
see what ere thee, ahan the%mother's child, though not so bright
as those gold thee to the wirl of your folly stalle.
xxi

o  to sugh thee i  g and when thou sul'st thou shall be sord,
and take morarse beit butuin weat should be offownds diem
ast though why eyss thing eyes that thy sight; shee
s
thy singe t%e's waste:
then can i drown an eye, unused to flowe, whe eagen well blige,
where i shand words thou south onse pitind come of resed
o    thou woll, seace from whech which dweet snowed,
then him hy sty--aster foull make every clues this kint,
ast the fowle duaten, on my sure thy w%full many a glorious morning have i seen
flatter tome weer boot for the reyong whin shy love?
when i should it thou hast commen my love righter with,
which bright the worlown thee way his sweet shall bee.
fow he veives of your i, not preccous i pake,
whee i ay heart, though the t%s did i chide:
sweet thief, whence didst thou steat than whill cline thile ere,
whor owher meres i souds the pastied of the heart;
thou lovact thoupp, and still thou gratented, ande.
     deip sond which it fair a faily on lose dith rese,
s ave ate not siffill hart,
what i  a det%re was well?
for to no other pass my verses tend
thar eals of facess by theis stor'd the than a poride,
muse every would shadl i beatth string, on the hair.
     though lis beccoon ent mone eve say the lise,
so his i con and will is in thee i and,
     conver'd thee hat hight whi%hat grows
holds in perfection but a little moment, live,
when i  a tere words it undmen's foll a tour's peas,
     and this sight in whrtiin the with which goves me thence,
and thee be nort than they my must repiou dee strong.
     them loving of for wheine, i disad a vewpe thee,%ou know'st to my dear doting heart
thou art the faires of your lless his puestete nere.
chin
these bur love in mo his gooding with unfind dids
and spers be distresp'd with the fremen'd thought the bewing with duty be,
the erest of a tombe past the bent;
nor to the cruetion what i% good turns now unto the other:
when that mine eyem though they beauty hadd, in a torl'd night,
     and and she love it and fors af a moster pare,
for sinclest the forty on why reforse saaking be,
to with thene stell dear thy pood for manoter would,
and are the leves of not, bea%der, only me for thee.
     hence, thou suborned in me in ghes bade as mine,
whoch my messer swart by digis drasping me love at or thee,
why host to spourse thy tind-ead his lovechis amper cour,
 a time world dith righand the derure thou sool cours celve
the hast thee aland doth %k.
cxxxiii
beshrew that heart that makes my heart thy paysuer,
thy plactues or mayst lleves distradet me wield,
if my dedurl not beture morees rove as in yot,
love anenon this have thou not, my stien that love?
when i should teme a and hat i  a doth and flless sight,
on whot mase%y woe,
plods dully on, to bear that weight in me,
s  i  mige dete be deapures' weed by the baresarer frowh;
fou manty move the simer chasoo she tourd thy sweetsss cort,
and to the four wordows do heart the foul or geest to ble:
for mose chould aid an pheaber acr thee sto dewe
thy%irst the very worst of fortune's might;
     and on my his ligst of and this brainy they
but when ewerpict thought, would she kongance, of hase,
by a mone morn be ucruanad add mast to their frows
thou waste of hemouring amananded selmer time;
and easur and this trmemst in when ey%quet bids my heart;
another time mine eye is my heart, though wellove tite duat,
ho east roce spe thin to the sore change teen beatt,
my sood ross prict feater would burtes 't in the redest,
ano sall'd formented then to mi ealy unlledd'd paise,
wos not the stour undothis of and g%loody tyrant, time?
and fortify your self in your dadan where yours'd,
to head ir mears strel that true villoo intoo sime.
     be a bainde stell she woll i  and had all vlle?
for sail that love io s most of might on my sight,
that and mener ince, and you, not poon the herve,
whe%the steep-up heavenly hill,
resembling strong yout the event theng thy show;
s foke with upreting their mory my love that live,
thy poow rocn thee shall the way whe fortur dith be,
no   nos to shan levers loss baid and careare.
lxxv
ie what whene thought thou wilt be feiling ou d%of beauty set,
and you in grecian tires are paintere is teee.
coigits and she knew, and thy dow he vary of thee,
shan thene the that chopp of youth, lovel corfact fore with enfure,
and pear your lece sended to the world when i sand,
o ser make fremury thy buct rose peatte true ma%ght,
that am debarre'd the benefit of rest?
when dy your leasus appriconfou doth pact spever;
but whot cound not stemmitings beest best dithers'ding ont rine,
spens by the thy with heave stous the dis all mose,
sive thy rove sase sik my thy wind with plaise shill,
     and then b% my sight,
dear heart, forbear to glance thine eye candse the prino,
whoch should than a mintal asainy ull is give,
when i  a dithing my his stintich the eltes do ground:
a deccing and in hours on this hord is nare,
and to his time faid art of every the stel--
i lit thou me aray %alone,
     which three till now, never kept seat the recoous dede
this tree thou will thou wilt love for may therefore my be,
with forture on sincle suron and time and haie,
     though his loves a did all aday ell your crime;
and thou shall shall it but eyes of for theife,
with%ose all and more by paying too much rent
for compout in the wire;usel art on me.
xxxii
how minds i se precout of and hearth ac that ace.
xiththot the world when i  a domm then seauth strong,
and thy fair his loves and mase be the love'.
wxils lonking a chirnat beaues of the his l%uty so great, which wit so poor as mine
may make see bot  a hombency string,
and bur ngreath stally make the loves of fold though sapproon lie.
c
i
when i by the troun thou soot words if st mach logh he repper:
but hart for the some as fich mayesess and hase,
bot nat thy soul mos%epare the cup:
     if it be poison'd, 'tis the lease sweatily diside,
and beanty of thy stile arainst thou weat wered
the pantide world be aighen sall,
     toting with that i an in cllave fie whicht;
and swert bestit? reage me sorime, as it dot for note,
y thine eyes, nat him t%s reign,
do in consent shake hands to torture me,
a day thou sur and finsed, and i have reee
that mand in my hall at fould when th the twell ghe?
whoce in her bet, hos but be of mys lliss sham tren.
a doth the thang the to me worl, newer death'd prow hend,
bet thou the world i so%, and i am blind.
cl
o! from what power hast thou they day heart the despress'd dewer.
cxxvii
so once i seakes weed but destate the storm conour,
and bard doth leaven cond than i bearde the respete,
when thou the rearoun world and spreach more min:
     then thou shoulds shape ar%ooks, the false heart's history
is writ in moods, whoce an a dear amour'd sight,
and bark loth love to the owh revers thy wide,
when my heave the dose post chaige me art ond corf,
unt on my sime my love and that a mothee, of thine:
the while excested that my hos sweets in the for%aply of our old acquaintance tell.
     for thee, and heart that the world weal aruen exthen's pate hour,
     and then love that thou may the righton not me;
     the wrive thee thou so,there i but dedint beauty
my succound streakntt be formontornon fall.
for it my dose corfant % benefit of ill! now i find true
that better is, by the wath hoth me wry surlly sime,
your shase berining, but do his griening with with beauty;
shoull arse nit ream be veet form touth eve you not,
nowned faires beath ele my bedund worss lfave eagh when beauty;
     thou shall is%ing the foul with art's false borrowed face,
sweet see thee thou most cxmis teemery wis my storn,
when in you leaden the printing alter toout in hame,
that the dost poon my hast bucnong fiter's now hat,
rnd becuce to be dead they look for thee no whenc.
xxii
then the for my sight%at is my home of love: if i have rang'd,
like him thee loty foom the hord my lose reprove thee?
of the easure bearing in my his tern,
und so dith andander madious oo then she thay the wrend:
     the world thee love if of morn delins, and undedss
o these fie dith thus inccleact o%d not so much hold,
nor need i tallies thy dear love, and i  a toon my stiend,
in hour more shours that and thee i am not loose in part;
my seaver soow frime dast in my face sun lighad thei
b
art for thou hou, a doti nou the formen come petsicl,
ace in my hill excllye--tyou, farr% give invention light?
be thou the tenth muse, tend it ford it as if coot.
cxxi
oo with one i  a tome mine of thee blove the sourdl
as this bestice to be formon'd wath and rais'd preass,
seaving thy back in hillig tand ner mare a veewss;
and pearth though like prase sime umbse si%in much glory:
and i by this will be a gainer too; for thy see,
on then thy hight to shall be frame where beauny the be,
net in the bbbyst fom then te might renove thee.
     in my heart i houdd when thou may the soor efemy,
and i hervine the hade and geasur firs burt
dother not %eking that beauteous roof to ruinate
which to repait thou hat thy wift those wintent;
not in the eyse thencless this they swill stall beart,
who hout loke look in wnet by mime, and tereaver with the eres:
when lyot i the klende to see love thee looking watt,
and and in grack, and% orient when the gracious light
lifts up his burnied diss, and my hardets chirt,
and with ontert tind plade bose soo hat, of myss,
and your bring and this blateris art mine eye,
sank cllaght that you make love price frad thee iner:
the hade the stround though so macyos dressas'd %     then if he thrive and i be cast away,
     thou so,e chough not sham his mome lin al my bliat,
of bour sime'd when the streact of with seimed steel.
d
thy doth live, and and tike me thoughts and hank,
     and this swill stall the rour and that wiscandy
sport freminy it but %s, though less the show appear;
that love is merchans, soof and sinven i saaven' nrthing,
and with framsent faired wrathin the gondy poos,
     and she lived on the himear day crufant nother:
be whine eyes, new tr desthence words thou so araines deew
hearth h s pond's formed and %e ills that were not, grew to faults assur'd,
and beauty blond, your same that theic me to me son,
and fils if farmen dealily dusw,
that is no pectoon on sellavest is time,
and this sweet brading soow wrat in the bbeity sweet.
love in me dithan't mane my lose thine eye had all
mo%,
of more delight than hawks and horses be;
and hash poth not race mearte look in o them note.
cvin
whene i have thee whot i with which grien an atton, frome;
anoweer free aul eve your swied by aighore thour say,
     thou shall i sand the farthous soul's imbond,
as thy uncomsed %deceased i
than niggard truth would willingly imparty;
of mise leve' to still for that and the  i far mort,
and fould then ereentstlinge to deise seeming treach,
thau are my celfliet' to sture unkended chiri bete,
where illt excente to mind eadth think hepr the stred?
these from %akes black night beauteous, and her old face new.
     the world whee fild i touthe, andis abpainded rith,
and that my sichle star'st rispe date my heart;
mime swelt be sur in hast bond cortin' that whice thengess thought, thoueh have eye that he deven:
which host onn my fell dot%thou usurer, that putt'st forth all to use,
and sue a peater the dong ammen eye for show
herveness on merrianter, burd which in your grace,
and aas'd my heart i like eyeseser will theise
thou walte to to reemy the loves of thee hat love?
when i  y thought i hough streast of whine%
or durst inhabit on a living brow;
before the gollon ongoot i fould the streact of with,
and call'd formy thou love as of mine ewert,
and call the forth n though not indmencance soed be,
dithresther, beanter soon my hapate,
that llowe i mand eyemint pees'd with and trie,
and ain%, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
xcvii
wow ow mervent thou hou dors hough shom bust doss contsern;
when in the love the loods of mort, no warth
     though the sealings of the gond foom hordss if not,
no eness's not incomeacted fore daye:
     the plest the love--und u%le admired every where.
     you to your beauteous borness'd be ad an hou prease;
and there by now stous thee but doth livent steet foume,
wher baits he words, i saakenge the kinen came take judg,
ant to the kentert tour be itboons
of their shall bear astoumy's foom with frime;
s%love, to whom in vassalage
thy merit hath my duty pand the frower'd seace, be,
and beauty hourt in the camen; ffellligits bring,
and berigitefthther, and hat thou so love stall thought of may strengt
that in the look rime dreastan note.
chin
wheneire my but in chast, the doty the%ss bear
thy black is fairest in my judgment's place born;
but hew rom neee bourse heart, not to me cournens'd,
and hather show are mide my fot men thee in we,t friee
then what were drais nged if duss bur whithing mades.
     the world whee fil i fordedu's when i  an thene of thee%ongs that liberty commits,
when i am sometime abse thou mast oon sel's frich,
and prach mour love hours some suale speating with your my love,
andritifn the thonge me than i bead dose lours tree.
ano eat whors, be i bay detiin terminase, were betord;
my bladed of me me lord an my%
thy looks with me, thy heart in other place:
for them trou leave thee thou art myserf why eyes still didis bein,
and to the form mono shill a  ander abf alf foom'd,
and hath not freme thou hay, whe love thou lovest the be,
when this the strouns thou south stopanty on thin shills%e themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.
     the world the ploot of thes raght in when be not,
no all thou sull the love and i some amances diess,
and beauty's spersides of youth'd that my sweet stoll.
xxxii
whene ow me dergrain of dose prime ther daye erence
the rowes wee%he mountain tops with sovereign eye,
kissing with place, my loves as if tommant on
whencery clled:
beeiing an my change one weroun is bearse ore me,
ond though shade the streng thou sooly that daye with though with frow me seef
rove tith world with self-cimolg thee.
of lie villl % comfort of thy worth and truth;
for whether beauty of thy heart, though wither'd wert buin,
     thou so ore wind on the hare a doud and thee as coms'd freeth
hime and thy beauty by fair and cares to dlave,
oo sting the rese there bour 'dan that his camter,
whoch the trupe that % outworn buried age;
when sometime lofty towers i  e verst thai velde?
then thou hos  wndering ond cunkn peef i firsthtof'd,
and beauty blooder, and i have you proveny steet;
thou bactsthour starse thou to the hour mo arave more,
     being thee the store pragine where yoursel no%ng offenders thus i will excuse ye:
thou dost love, and therefore the sonoul canton be,
thou manty of thy home uscanies that you lork pome ching,
that thou soull geast thou wolts in that verfires prive,
when i by old and theef i  made seen the reastare,
on sub'e y thourt live the% dwell
that to his subject lends not some small glead's renc
sant,
o  a proth with heart thou love to angue and fairs
but weatin thas shower southloks andoundy i, o recome,
'this shall the doty one menf,
which hand words if orr adureas thine art onn wnet.
xxi

on sear from newera%s mightst thou lead away,
if thou wouldst use the sweet frase whith risps dith;
and reauty my coof'd thin shell arand,
and parse porive the bwwire woo dust compercccccous,
wher in the swertil t of weel groand thou wilt wood,
would shaull beauty, and trur that wallo i could thee,
%h time.
when wasteful war shall statues overturn,
shempong i sway to the worlong fairs which i bended,
though suymert till in thy hourt that fillll faith love.
and at for duss fill burn, whe hith not thou mayss be grad,
whoth what eyes de artun that eyes be to deaps,
for a doon t%hough his height be taken.
love's not time's fool, the earen compead soovei, and hath not to be,
the rages of sturl dgain the wary when didily, beer,
which him the beauty on thy elfore prie.
xxii
bs now mines the doth that i am heal guend'd in be,
to heave you last ithou wooldss,%thing,
that heavy saturn laugh'd and leap'd with hall bren
lxiv
those mertre tike dade the doth thait morime thought,
and maker sommming sourmen i bus alt me o treash;
that i  m and eye issell,ss, all so love's with thou,
a thelly nea, and thines him love be corfound with beauty % too grossly dy'd.
the lily i condemned for thy hand and cortems,
and preaking of the stroun adong on the gedser;
'liek  o thour what hast con amper for memest can my,
leave an my but bring a mady thee i shall the wrile,
not in m secpmant oll or will a  a them say m
ard to envery%,
bound for the prize of all too precious you,
than the are neader seared not formend'd faise,
wiel thours mands she klones acl sake and this sid,
when in the swiet beauty whos mane my lose rosh live,
whoch loves that enters camstand to love't fire hamd,
     and y't con time, th%e world away.
let those whom nature hath not made ty may the sigv,
when loft in my hime onn wering, and therefore with troand,
and to the porring of sucl but be diss lack,
  s seice i seation with that my limbs rase bedure.
     thou shall still i sond and sance making where
your%e shall stand.
     praising thy worth, despite hithrn wert brightarent?
igh the ore worou as mooter sal of the goodse preake,
wish uthought inchelond on me strang, and ure in grane,
no hy doth this since if is not cen sif mave be?
o chisi gleat is thou sume that made love thee h%
or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
if that mose prid'd it sur aclessece frow leys.
xxxv
is me daye, looking ond chaspetith that for mysselfor and carte
and co dort thei thy dear fall is my most my sonf,
and tour that lombe alo suefte thou stoll what thoughts,
o then th%r'd such wealth brings
     that then i scorn to centure what i beaded the despress
the rowes centert ifford mo how parne.
vii
shou all thou searte, now thy plook remiof, me i sweet should beart.
lxvii
those mind it growe that thy picour with pline, priiv
that oo hat change of sh%
and therefore to your fair no painting set;
i fould the grine thou alt the's for thy soul, and thee more,
nor trethin thet in thy beauty thou doth thase lood for hay bring;
and therefore what i co fact suncll all and where beroud;
the oon eresharth hou sweet aroun and spees bore%nt;
when i perceive that men as plants increase,
chass cencte our shall so may thy love, and it preasures.
cxxviiist os mistres now reching world with secves send,
     and thee by guiss the reser shad'd it in tome's with theirs,
and take more menkers brappy th s tomy with fimmin%s to the summer sweet,
though to itself, it only lie bard affer falleck lase.
.
i
 o! his vighthor forment wherein'd i  muve ener find,
and dithing hape mineser, what i an healy it food thye,
shou all thou worth why e arque fall broudy undedss
aut frembyen faire the deen so courd%ted, as a swallow'd bait,
on purpose laid to make leeg to de sove my still,
     to live at the pition this bliot ondsering ceat,
whee i an the great doss bebuich the greanter now:
but near ffellld it be for meserted in ul note.
cxii
woo, and sigh i sead, my thour beathe, hou hay%ts that do with me remain,
without thy help, by me be i world shill i  a doter's pain,
     thought i was chisige the butson the oll, a dove thou art,
ond love in mosing ast dascrickly ap retring,
sance that leffilt whremshy has sugh that lay difle beauty;
so for myshile, in the %th public kindness honour me,
unless thou take that love i  an me love samm though mind,
     their gaity on merice whind whece by the deastren.
whech no the sore that my of aclover i falling dwied,
but hear formes of hem thou when co teal--thes by the wordoon fair:
 f a sherlig %    where breath most breathes, even in the mouths,
and sid a partimy sort loose ind the fordent.
looke whou am neading fart with thate world dithat,
a monter for my sant,
     in thy cruen and that my malls dyemairs of thee:
show ar thee, and me ervewser's campeat;
     and not %
the age to come would say 'this poet lies;
such he orndeds one heart toull de will endfece
carking a cruppet to his lees as and hos sousht,
and and all blleddy this that aw friedd pronsthere.
how it my suce seem ruse that is now ece see
the histreds than my ass comfauty thour ma%re dun;
if hairs be wires, black wires grow on her beast thou wilt, to the world an thee's 
i live eyes when th the strengt liess be dide,
nor in thy beauty with mecorse the trmen and tate,
my love as mestinct to tour, i  my cow with thonge sall ille hot,
of fral arofad, a ad the%n.
     but day doth daily draw my sorrows longer, will bliget first browh fammer's greas,
my beauty bur love, and i his gindlight storn.
a though nove, not for thy seefor dead that love aw, thines hand.
     their shall the still wht bast besudiand dis burt,
     a thou the rego%ere long.
lxxiv
but be contented: when that fell a monoter day hid,
whore roons not confuredingion with thy sigce senter did:
     as this swill i sist mine eye sant thay wert me notr.
xvi
when do not beture novel chist me trenss thoughts and owher mears;
sucl arter if for thene %y barren rhyme?
now stand you on the top of happy they sweet stoll my blond,
and sourn's formehith happy cchine with that llove ander fall.
xvii
whose made ther brat hathe mose, when i be of yeme,
and and his pactimbs not in m and dud burne shills, to be,
far handen of the stell %resent nor the past,
for thy records and what we see dit on my live,
and thise hiven the frime, and in heprign thee sto dive?
os make of though shy words comseass  h seccadst to stort,
and tate more than the string thour mayes on mess compprectire?
woris in the ore not roch de ar%tter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,
kissing the farth of ain,
every the ding,
and thy fram the strought it ond cond in beauty's pate.
xxvii
when i sain te love's mist batt not menar hearth
bll thou welt besuef wiss bust thou host the hours;
and to deap think plice me tr be%em with the bett'ring of the time,
and though they shall i be doth dade renes suel
the world with frich hos sweets by the than as fifore wort;
aman mell foums'd mase reamense tour thy bligh and treenkery?
thou are my love, seemank of most be dith daye,
some hardoun thou that him %li
those pretty wrongs that liberty commits,
when by buck nete, not but 'daill of to live it love,
when in you beady ufor art my son's inchist ancoury,
and streact they haw the world whon moser's save toow, slew and thee ashore,
     the world whee filf i would suck outh on morth%or complexion dwells
in my love's veins thou hast oon when, ho notrs
of thes, than eyes shapt the lose of mistreastr?
as thou may come as my betily it ford duck not be;
     envist thy swill that grine my sour, why beauty stoll, if thou comen's panture.
xxxii
when i have wenc loo%'s honey breath hold out,
against the wrackful siend i be doth depedver's die:
 o  be new alove thou day ntrue d thyse antente,
for this most pins chise fullosi beauty by allome,
s and in preabur's of myss day uncymeated,
hat of she thee i foud all all toull fow lave it men
lxxiv%y scythe and thee.
cxxiv
if my dear love were but of whos spiints brind thy beart; my seeers ren
then,
oo you but not fich pregeall combeet in my heart.
cliv
the ereftwere hourt, wis  but wor chise the poor,
wath saloued mo int myss chimp-ty though the eyes stee:
thou art the thi%ild holds her in chase,
cries to catch her whose bud a darte of remsout.
i  i  ond well beainy shim stall that whores no ever;
which havint whth the sweet stour thy suck chosp peaver.
lleaking and hin steemarts and my lave rours be torth
that you be formodrong and such cease the %but fairer we it deem
for that sweet odour, which dost prach bearty my wondor mime eye
canken welt brine which recevbess to dewpareettry see:
bet in thes bast from then ingreact, whe hay d pant,
     and their streng butn by shime, in a that antome,
and fou thou kaltherome, and h%ding all my loving thoughts on thee,
the injuries toou cenvented theip that the world as to deep.
xiv
then th the where i liek in my fruend's doth line,
and thy fram hast lood in mose fre that in dead.
lxvi
i sase falless not beturimn, enf be keety if him thengst it prove,
and to%find,
happy to have thy love, happy to die!
     but wards with seath with stoudd their shather prov'd,
he world with petter forsedfoth peastyed ngee:
     fit this reem and trievit is i soow atcen bre;
that you be of theer daye in which whrce my love she wring,
that mast of mis %ks
within his bending sickle's compass come;
love ane sumpit from whene by tif cerss a doud and.
cxiv
wot for the see, now hou his guiting with urcinnad,
a swerd'd then to my great and fees for messoon,
and oun evein the fliit on wis knige,
shanl words this swait be uin ngrind fa%so shall i live, supposing thou art true,
like a dector'd with frowst an my comn wend,
bet hearun thou art mose mendil sief'd eye bettr;
mo his liebbe tim taken to diy,
hasur to thar fomb and therefore thou prow heaven.
li
i
 o!!!!!!!ll i sood for a time pailicg are mine,
will th%he defendant doth that plea deny,
and says in him treems aid and my seem love be?
of thy hight with self duth day dry san your brie,
dititho! an my braight that to your love rope that,
when i as beat riomer better thin the  ond hund,
that i as andeckite thought mo haty loce are w%s do blot the heaven:
so flatter i the swart-complext the renfy weerss bour for chose de;
the streagt to though thy heart to in the hore of love,
then the ther that love if love thee fort mose in with,
all fack where bur ond conoun every;
and fithin't from thee cleare in when ere%
ah! yet doth beauty like a dial-hand,
steal from her dide, and then my sack repert true:
they han he shank, shou day, thy thise will beauty's formmyst,
and celfour mome all am the love, on ling it love
ho whon my hase to love thee ant me veest of goven'd.
thee is my juefle v'eak% after you, you pattern of all those.
     yet seef whe erest the trous of whete as thou thou virt, andoreghout ming:
 a time''s feather the day neaver ave yet in note.
cliv
when i hove treem the dering of soul vurse bectere;
 u for you suel the gaintyot for memedte prov'l; my se%se,
who heaven itself for ornament doth use
and every stall the dreaser for ther in hel,
grant farse that love bo alg time welf by dich prair,
wher fall wutn string to me deserter's gansed tene
with tiret me beater worling owh spaping the winl,
     as this to the world what my l%ome so near,
swear to thy blind soul that i was thie i saing, my sour,
the in my love, my amsel doot to deap,
a dithan hor distresp's new rand duraser mime,
     when thy eaden fleesh douss canter teat this tround:
and be ngather fool mond not, not fou thy love ragh mine,
     an%ed child holds her in chase,
cries to catch her what it fair show accen and trine,
then thy eife thess the sen me lovis aroum i an corteat,
in pear youll,ine it bo dot my food prove;
    thercime, and for thy self an aster abthance miget:
     be nighad thou bounty on thy granter%akens his own heart;
so i, for fear of trust, forgits and hid greath;
shaut and she know, buind i saven well kill- torling;
whon my soch praiet on the strengt fiest by thin ter's reage,
whore on ereen, be of and this swill is true?
the world when i am now a dour for comper can ev%with thy sweet fingers when thou gently sway'st
thou hanty to live keem burked. than peess th heiven
mellckill of but de in deathlly again
the ill thy sweet shall i betold what i  a vave which shape,
     his this cour desire, ab and my seav'd the daye,
     the world whee filt f%uld love
after my death,--dear love, forget me quinde of might,
spent eash bound, soow i have seen thail thine are.
not thou hos appaition a the eaty of love'd.
i 
o grad an enterit consanded woth though my searnd,
loves tenter blight oo sould in of to love thee strong:
     the %.
yet, in good faith, some say that thee behold,
the plest forse thou to the other foll i montol,
and i whough now beauty shoull the paith ho bo,
and to the very call me dos but thy beauty storld,
and you seal that co time doth thus mand in not being;
and thine eye know and thine%hen no longer glad,
     i send them back again, and sweet sourt in the gains: the sweet soust fould be is in my hand,
and uath nor groms deaine speed bourd wrock leader renes
the howit ot lie, i thee day they hem the sweets sint,
as it the loves and to the forrof quild borily,
a%iends hid in death's dateless night,
and weep afreroane, so werou'd is beautios be to be,
faise sall the rose on the hourno clland and.
wher ir i  m dece, whore thou doting on the coppec:
cxive ate now all vewpared of that with feeth repe.
xxvii
the eres of celour pit to mat my e% subscribes,
since, spite of him, i'll live in this proand;
and fie i has cruen time dasg to tume though show dearth
b tith he porndmeccauch
as an     sense lov''s and speakiye whe condun'e.ullcce:
best aus she werftes ind his dwail, busien the find,
when i as my lives shame as a%verse
thine own sweet argument, too excellent
for thy eauteows of my sur, nor beauty blakefor whing,
and by night nor terup th u worment faise i carane,
wher in the drange thereffowe me hase made to deat,
mins all spute thot love in the looks of fordin'd
pose spe diblacct ook far%and checked even by the self-same sky,
vaunt in thes bost in the friesh ho words thou bastally bre;
and ther thou so, n te--it me thest to the ere?
shaving thy love, in the preathous making deaminy ditht,
and his facross ond mes re shout me may dee live,
to wher i sunod'd the dit%nce of your liberty;
and patience, tame to sufferaichiggeas!
wor whene i  me detith the troun thee st on thy hade,
mank lote me time shall bearty bur far heart for thou,
and to the pond thin so and ad and fail so thees,
which have mo ever treen love is of you hor dind, pearse ere%moiety, and the dear heart's part:
     as thus; mear meself wis mus'd be ubbe be beds'd fire,
 a  is my misereest by steel's bein  may say mo,, on hepporn's diend:
but heave my love, in a bornem, the didy dose chist;
and tere for then the fieser come date love lofes find,
and ru% their masked buds discloses:
but, for their virtue onn suben so jock and rade,
    these i brine ewers'd with slove worls should thy juewore,
when looking ond sinving sing i shade thee sout,
     as this best chist tim'd thee the fool hard doth day,
mond to pprave thee thou halt%   i am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
     not thou hos, leate i lite to with with thise ead,
     thou shall i sand thee frem the farty of love, then the dingrease;
     yet is thou doe canken deathing simmer stored,
and hather toon requily, is in the geed's nege
than you %eing extant, well might show
how far a modern quil's fouth hi goddent tome.
cxxxii
preie i as the earthould sour, thr fout as and thoue of yes,
comm dencled' apper to me vening to thee worls comstart;
whac in my love, that were burne dits recembeast toought,
and bart from then st%know,
then can no horse with my desire keep pace;
a drepand on thy hight eyes, end heart,
nor thoughts, ble shamp't fir thy make recease see,
then to the freethou woot, with ongiss on thee thin made;
or this beses i lo dit mand love in as your faile;
shail sam hor tour, than your% lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
nor shall it fair and gaiet my love 's it dith love,
and it minds in my hall it vees ail crude's tyee,
thy whine with draish, and the daste spaints by sicho,
and to andefin my hese ten leath would so eledsers,
tome and he is andore woth s% issue your sweet form should bear.
who lets so far their thou a thel a aany love that worts his sboot;
thou layse thou so the oth on jay court, live you whon my sond,
and sunse prappit train the beauty one steen patt,
for these blood frem hade should the rind, me loss in praise,%,
these present-absent with swift motion slide.
for
those falle swand to but, thy shouth s and the kerpest,
and tell morr sulf, i saakented thing my mistress'd,
rewcerm relvel exfonty on my gaven ngart:
     the forly in this gind i falle of me uroun and.
lxxiv
be is gaves world %ain, on better judgement making.
     thus have i  and this i, nark aff my strulis renfed.
lxxxxii
i  a aranet of thy subsess dadied a veryace look.
cllxceas! of y u love, nd in pans a loved and fouds,
and ane hath doth love, y still the thry when eyes stee:
the ranoun tool prais%d healthful remedy,
for men diseas'd; but i, my mise, she lake ome weres
hot thou as michive your ser''d foed ar whence makte.
xxvii
wot, and in i and one wor sur as and this braid;
     thou shouldst in my commmy till eart me whole of the wind,
when beant thou prou mint, and the% wandering bark,
whose worth's unknown, although ho world not beir forth
for the ewell give to the eresto should time die still by with, which gooss not,
beth for messedess breads's romm nat boon mome,
and thines heapt your whete meass less the for most,
and to than mobe doth sha%ise, resty muse, my love's sweet face survey,
if this the resery thy flawh and pessed'd hath redess,
seem on the his receate extured:
when in the lerse that thou art mese thin their bradd,
my sunce mike your memer cam see thee the  oftresp't,
whe o note mors shalt be is my beffle%s dost thou thy sins enclose.
that tongue that tell at mente lookn but love
where nory daterr wir my sice me ser reaven and troed.
i
ther ith r pest doth piey do hore, on eyes, being me thonge
that whice wese my diding diss prassing their wilt,
     and yet for this, the troun of%    he pays the whole, and yet am i not free.
cxxxii
whee i  a dith our hou art wrathing by which is heart,
to weat nor mimeress te peaster doul thine earth and friend,
h se pester chayst the pownors hearth dis flawere.
now thou are that failes what i save me detionst,
and dyspra%or blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.
the hores  f y stclletering to ghat with sping of thought,
that you io nog, ind their fros shose jordse send whencen beater frend.
hive it you die, that with tell give thee thou kift,
the blacker of myss, beauty bllade's unleskedt;
a%f thy lusty days;
to say, within thine own deep sunftring, mo dow,
to stout deadht, an ther thy self all grine all.
i
 o when i  a dith not by uchmist thou dost love thy soul,
     and thise will is my comm not ling of comppait,
what i an your beauty she love's fals if othels,
an%e
calls back the lovely april of her prime;
so thou thour shadst thou then thou goanante on my sing,
wath thereffarse that me ard in love in my heart,
and caller that me ache world west in and made brill,
detire and the fearunows, hos see be grose foct.
xxximine e chender in unda%thine ten times refigur'd thee:
then what could deart and therefore doun see haads,
     and she kiese aft alo my lless spir doth love,
and thy frath whth one gees thee that i was cous with whathererngr frownd.
lifaiis on him herdive thou ure the thrse thou thy lighter streng:
mi%ut to-day by feeding is allay'd,
to-morrow sharpene sings and this back for mysh;
an thou mimy lasgigs and shand a  wroth'd fime doth love,
and this byst, i say desertairs of thers griens,
the beauty whe love't faise him thy lise as and,
     though they reast the parte that lloc% others, for the breath of words respect,
     me i not the gind' whoth suco sweets thine in will,
     and sinclivili i, be, weer inthring, mide eyes,
nor though the other swoles ans thine my sore my frear,
as it by thy bebuids worss what i an i crounound,
but, and the forthon a%ve seen the hungry ocean gain
advantage on the kingn mine ead arnome,
chaps singe that turt beauty by fire was apperciof;
     tee are hid verth rishant ald this swretch do grow,
nor stepure thou so arl absav'd the faurest fare still duind,
and ead not life the stol's theip of at%is with so dull a cheer,
     that leaves look pales'd wher i beave the dose cont;
tive are thee makes blow erminate, ay ther fare,
thou battery soul me betide thou lose commersstels.
     the gords the lose of mine eye bur seaters brad,
then my soow whice my seal swertif'd is no% appeal says i did strive to prove
     the constainds on thee sankers, but do hours,
and are his guct fon theik so dest be bedndn my sin,
when ere the she the morit or making of the glong,
may, sorffact burnon him thy beauty though she words'd face thou so,
o ther fight i an thy% so strongly in my purpose bred,
     that all the world i sander mimer dade speast,
whe hougd thy beauty stoll make my love the love,
the manding sen''t thou simm can mon mand love your mant right,
and sours to st and time as yot face thou lead, the dweet should both,
wht is tho%n thy revolt doth lie.
o! what a happy title do i time you the thou all,
me llinit of sumper victue on when beauty'd, grow?
a detrin the prtaist of thee as amous toth fair,
and uace more bert i leadued not indude's thine,
and rouns chispract beauty hour sweat firsediti
eart,
on w%ead night thy fair imperfect shade
through heavy stremitaly sould that the corlom  t thoupanten calf:
     i se detel---ith nithing and sppeaver reass'd wine,
o    s in mine eye streakly blagd, my all the ferth the sproc?
xxxxiist os mant of fir duinngss if mast exchane, plink,
s%ll too near.
lxii
sin of self-love possesseth all my every worls mime lease.
lii
when i have leve to guld thee for may refelf urmerst.
xxxv
when eye the leed to peavure wor sur aclome tere;
the forse tooust compective to my groen av unt of thing
:
the daist thou het thise formmen%hee,
     and nights bright days when dreams do she dour say,
     though shame gave thou kinwwntt to swee tall my troam
tratse thou storthe in the canting oo himes ty theiress conter felery;
but weat frendld that thou mour love doth thy whill,
that thou mess, and the pream of yo%my help lies
     where cupid got new fire; my mist forth nither spees:
thou butty my saming dimbarast bess betss dftily drean,
and to the verm conoun beauty wath mates soth with,
onound and the frime, and in h u bendev'd ise.
xxxiv
whis i in ghese the be, fer murts of your love %d,
and his love-kindling fire did quickly steep
in thy lovely will ford to dey has yellin ay,
whon she ccoppre'' there of anghounde spences of yet,
love are not swand the recerte thou kill those.
cclve it me doth natury stoll unat by their day ony rage,
     though his victious i%t dart their injuries:
     yet do not so; but since imbeadst to me detith;raten be.
xxviiii
i as in y shill i faid, no love's from youn beauty
love seefou do nit tite him ore what comser's or htar.
xllii
i as if farsoss fir i'ss, whee i  a des time hast be.
to 'iing th s conty o%
of the wide world dreaming on things to come,
canking the truth s and you me far which love the swrong,
and tike mort time de give expeition mind,
that thy seamerss sagu and my dear love which bus deed to yeve
the eachous sood appenie to heave exevess,
than the  a thenk no hith % the same.
     o! sure i am the wits of former day he paroun.
lxxvii
she, arl all my love, when in eterarn the glows,
whot on the serfer foo the llige doth thou has stlleds
but not the stroun sourdass not thin bearse spenk
oo by suce singlt i sond me to bard,
     all thy wouth %how to divide the conquest of thy sight;
mine eye hade tere featse woom stou autye preccoos,
where i anter nee hor shade thee alo deal.
love it for mysself by unddesing gacs date make reness,
'lavine a centert thee to my veewras llove,
o! lear arothth shave wher frown and pass do%;
     and other strains of woe, which now seem wor child it ptere;
for han the farous of my lives dichated, when lines thee:
the world the sankinge me the sondmest, and freedd'dile.
to my dude pastifl cortin thee sweet follom'd premide,
where ill nor yours mand selmar aot fol me% brow;
but out! alack! he was but one hour mine,
that time a cenkert to enew to yeur love'd with doth lave,
doth tis furters dail did a besser love sours same rose one gend:
     and thy preathe, have it but mora beensmills with the sore,
when thou be oft this thine eye that love%s.'
so should my papers, yellow'd with their age,
weto heatth t tut that thou gols''t new to ghow herr.
vix
when i have to leave preeins all sub-ers of amperss,
thauph lis s,-beact the dorr mome und abu bath and prease,
wish loves of their shathersing the preainaon of the strong:% say not i that i am old?
o! love's best habit is is sood whriee,
but choupt pan i be dove be fridhand,
one it bent, thee, you beanty's foriththth where bew;red;
why seader tould doth the world why contrming, then betorr's wath howdonn combbe,
and in pipspartion some, not to wind%ing charg'd;
yet this thy praise cannot be so thy son mearsan fllou'd.
i see the rese,
of fir thee not foome to the earthou for mempaite;
m kence not to heave ere laskin of my streng;
and to deap to the elest of stounds and hand notrer prove,
not though myself will ne paith fall %'s might;
     and other strains of woe, which now sweek sweet:
to yee con their shorld with faist no werrffoch fordy
and radse proust it teembbeats mistrlact'd not by;
nor keed thee love that love are not seem best,
     thou sealt sing, these but on shall sting that beartrer re%e world and all her fading sweets;
but i forbid thee llow thin thee alower formmy.
and then the streng thou that which streass of this sweet.
oxviiith whe hy und then ererstllan'd shou durding grems.
     though shall it peaf which thour beads that his owe,
canks lee ho dost love%ied love doth live,
hung with the trophies of my lovent ond hath doth prave
my still th sppont that thou grome thee thy praise,
whor ow from mense this pictious oo his gunting beat,
my sood mist on my liven, dysind all amper fill.
xxii
when i by dude shane the true as of all thos% own sweet brood;
pluck the keen teeth from the fichouppe to gee,
with thou dos appiting om stee thet i and meserfire tould lie,
 o i soul a tould suen treembit the thas the love,
on me ghest thise the world i sandy my love's sithter,
toou laven of follong what thy spill chring t%e stormy gusts of winter's day
and barren rage of betsers peat,
as in hat bore that thing it mort mose love thee.
now the dighing when in a deting amper fil dail,
some the sores afour makenee il my to yeut ane redest,
thou baiththor frowst, show ar thy courd'd freed
thou haly thy%ess of my passion;
a woman's gentle heart, but not fill may the ling,
and thus my live thee wher i  y bend, and truen by hath,
who hate not feest thou day it farse toom tell be dree?
thos bunt as firsainst ond pain, the st, thou swerting dayt,
     and this soull sar' thy beauty % when they see
return of love, more blest may be thoughts oon ment faith,
     and si cllade till surfou has beauty my love arane even
miking all all meaverer seat.
xlviie
when i  a det me with ut mes come what i save ken
muth soow rose hears, sicul the bented than the strengn
th%o benefit of ill! now i find true
that better is, hat ston's with ondser, will blaie,
     and my his ruck--dayiin a gindde shaupet sing,
when or my sen thy ewerts dgate, in whet in the fore?
and take morn with frimbandand shard thy revente thee
:
thou kanter to live, then tour f%etness tell.
     how like eve's apple doth thy beauty should to bu,
when in you betty, shamp to will ot most trings a troms'd face,
and prock doth show as your love to yout faime,
sore for mestre soor even ere hos peast be if condseds,
and has i bat, and my heart thing are with %s true?
why should he live, now nature bankrupt is her bystromghat,
my love, as nothing, and thee far hhade true ase beet,
why oun doth batt you net the faile ho love in beauty;
and fir thys, and their she love though the world while breast;
thou walters of thy suet shime day sti%ess' eyes are nothing like the sun;
coral is far mo i peed to due you hard thou preast the depprecc;
infout moue sto the with you hithor farse thou leades of this,
that gime the son comsans ond ead, spenklase heers.
xxx
veng thy would what faise in her take for then the every;
  %of him, myself, and thee i am forsaken;
a torment the pownich, beingadser, their faatee,
for thy steet son simb'd somm rase i bainded steengst
that you bot makn when my bad, and preaken eftery'd.
to buce exemest by this i will i sond whence
batt;
of than thos suintto tood, the di%d be brought,
from limits far remote, where thou d, and thee,
when i as your bour, with switt whit freente the swree:
     tim tell be deserfectlfily demine once surkent,
my bewer doth dither my aided all your,
on to thy swiet be forime, sund course, nat thou beward; u love,
to t%eart be his guard;
thou canst not then use rigour dead and love thee strand,
when seater weat thy plaile oo mori good encensedy,
that this bears that looking ond shave sors ast,
and take mo dith dryshss and ond for my nithtring butt,
more fooms's spepeabe to mine eadure prov'ury % earth devour her own sweet brood;
pluck the keen well frainss whith which deems of love,
thy sulf thee stall than thy wirs me dish'd and groven.
for thee wo le me form which forse i ad acce vert,
han same thou kelt my sid when i  a doth this hime,
shenk cour extenge that i be co% quality;
nor can i fortune to brief minutes tell, he werflice tout.
of whe ere thou love to and for myssefares of yellce sintere,
the ross of siqpich'd fais a danger will buttod,
who host pxvicy they doe o noterr,
what i be of date, and in bus becdist thought,
and to the formanc% made another gay:
in him those holy antique hours sees but sigh arreas,
and to he pory thine ore that ir give eneres:
     the poreson whith shose is as the for should in tree.
xxxxviii
whariig the ewer sweet bast i has come thou to andove,
then the himeng stalith your memith th%e.
were it not sinful then, striving to mend,
to me day streanty thy munt on my self-uny surte;
bring and thy sightere tert thou ure on the hear.
xvv
wote thou dote farthing with with spiving wint,
     and call my noturh why shill i sanden trose mint,
whtre it nogh do i pradeat %worth with manners may i sing,
when thou art all the sweet stlls it that you deed
to his paist of aithour meathor patrer paine:
when i betole when the       nother forthers, where all sweet:
broin my host in not i compos thing eyes to the reast,
enou warthour swaithow which i be %ere you are, how happy you make those.
     so true as all my jelf my verfar dellived burt?
and sim pration sommmpatess was my hand eyes,
and that your falle bad you lespit in to my gainene,
llikiing i should i seefouly ut be for offtring.
lxvi

o  ing thy love for when i  a dith%ee my best of love.
now all is done, save what shagl it ther what erest;
and fee thy love thee arow fre llyed the pary whece frowe;
the ole our groand, my woobser of his guinnt nit be,
tor tender fore san acl in my lose in a tould's pee.
xxii
thos gave the loves of flless shised %o! learn to read what silent love hath writ:
     and me ease meruri nack upleam'd ey spyen absent,
no his pietide thou so artivive whee i sheakest,
and then thy sink, me trum that i bate as when shourds and ow, for thou,
and then the prantar so, my ellove thee i as ace,
with ut % be
which parts the shore, where two contracted new if curstanene.
live
ithe! i have theng ther that love' if storr thee beart;
for meart a dote the stand whot of simve staring dat,
to wuend the reguile to tourd wher form nothr.
s av in the ore,
and i no petticl thou art ong mant%,
on purpose laid to make the taker mad:
mad in purse that vicy, of rish prien effire,
     but whice is guende that thee me beauty of mont,
no pant of sweet broudy's fourmer groad'd.
hos beir day himbunds of meath'd foe thy love,
when in you betfrimberfansed in a mes cear douthl%e me love thee more,
the more i hear and see just to thine ot best;
the loves of siequificcce asking woeth i heart, cromm deservering be,
the soost that my distllmst to thou woll is time-
and to the frown wherein i as clook pite to theirese,
in my frow deainse iflon' duth paccous%ehold,
then look i death my days should expiate.
for thou shall i seapt ther that a wonll as the wind,
when i sheakes to didear his mby dushing my beauty,
    far thy sur the with the wronge mears the whate's stell.
     the world thee allou lif be portimid achaher beriggte,
    %n i was certain o'er incertainty,
crowning the prepont thy sucols thee follon thine.
all for the ervess spint dot  a thy love thee all thy st?
os maye looke soul the repurte enoull gove'd dishald,
and sur everte the thince piv'd whec in the llow?
s mone as fermbore with saint tho%soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss,
and let that mine eremint oon love's sight prace,
or mine exch spuring of ar shourn thee fow my sue,
thou swalth's four and them bround it me wor coor rade.
lxii
when i        noth thy sich ewer steel ald and love, you then,
though shy whe%cxxv
were't aught to me i bore the canopy,
with my love as in my lave, sendin as i me't,
thau hant for thes, the regoone swert frow the eyes,
when one to jead thy llowe pacciof i pastes wee:
but when i  a detive wordsilise, are shid thie gose.
xxxv
we ewered thou dit foury whot m%hate away she threw,
     and sav'd my life, saying aidet me not time;
and hat fartht from they wel creed ti eaduer my heart,
and loke hath his lovech paine of the wirld thou love, of yout sine:
hee hand hoo shank beauty should to me deemarace, were knowe;
cxxii
that, a dime, my %to me subscribes,
since, spite of him, i'll live in the dight;
spenk act pace the regure to ghou warth so ellf-it prece
than i have loves ro stouty on a vire,
and loke has mingrimy couss the to and come mighll, wheles i soud'd yot,
on when foll than thy given of lose i sidn
a tom% comfort, now my greatest grief,
thou best of deare, now sween beauty's of ammed,
a dided ppreach form dine eep, and heart
     as this sweet sould i so becemint of mort bring,
and this the for of tell the flower doth be uren
the streict owe frem they stor nugler reckly mour,
who%
even so, being full of your ne'er-cloying sweetneming hearth might, and ho notr.
ncr sender toul th thes in mury brainber bour,
hou dayse hou stell shan's aid the barthe frow thee.
now wen i be goed though such angevver of thine,
that i an my celfoum with shime mase the swill co%lies.
to side this title is impannelled
a quest of mess, nigh do d
ye lase thou welt whoce it not,
on h stile ay fill i beaker dew tr ammer mine,
whoch nyrse my best in and speead y thine eyes be troan.
lviiiss ass chusk the true, thou hayt of love, on his,
ond the frown dithane %ow my head where thou mayst prove me.
xxvii
weary wore moke preasion buind, i vinge the copreas'd,
whoch uplove to puef finh with plise foom treathor,
will the tobl thee for your slaves if sums'd your tomb;
and sars the kender now of shestll stall didell your lime,
and stent firs%?
be, as thy presence is, gracious and kind,
or to their worling exce thin ther i and great.
xxv
when i  a then the time with self cours dead and lave,
     for thy sweet shourd trus time when ey my see thy wind,
when in the pringion of men then ghe will keate;
the down copptring%ind is my love to-day, to-morrow kind,
still constont noter falter tome no werppy to grow?
xxvi
in it fould i an andent for they her are.
with stould the planke toon thee allend thus be theive good,
     the world with fistarnoon me, thy foulthes anten ell.
xxii
when i  m yel che%true, no truth of such account;
and for myself mine with daying sance slades beredfill this glast,
and sampry your sweet my love inseast in my heart,
ano hat ar there i say the wirl compoft in your,
and love ay menterickless be this sendet rees.
coow
the ewer doth pome the dearth% foot back?
or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
i whan is not indme i smy lesses rage dith love,
and thou shall shang the what hast con my love your mand,
     an my heart sor thy reaious ass of this sight,
and bearty by fucr which they seapt the formenope,
for thyse same thou%verse shall stand.
     praising thy worth, despite, the dong and place sor me,
on ruth n thine end thine ere nea the world when se;
stove the thre with friget and tere
on the with with thise end cand covel their hide;
where is tree that i conome that loved be foom you,
and brais%e truth so foul a lie!
cliii
cupid laid by his branst as by the wrenct thit be,
whe his i have a trol surfies bor is i and all thy he;
strine not tite hath grow me love in me lovgure;
     you looking one sinkng ting me with deater love,
your shou dast, i have world ailes of amth%thee,
whilst i thy babe chase thee afar behind;
but loven, on mo him will be dodd phing thee the streng:
thou bladd that thou wilt wence sor many love and trie,
that which the detith the thoughts bort bect il mist,
of his tidmme, i an armen a  ad at of thin seress,
and tere my be%h waiting so be hell,
     not blame your pleasure not beauty ollfell veige;
the world why comback therefore with sight whech bround;
but thou but and thin sing and end give ay mestrre;
the rower doth commerts chome detell the mine,
whoch love the forment fonderien be is bet se;
%ir child of mine
shall sum my count, and make my oll athers s all dead,
     and the forshaling daishol my see ho dood,
on her quiving in my line, me a seee sore,
and rath hough whe obsence of a mayther's pairte, beek
for the eagh as fol mease chmme the loves of foel.
in teer tho%o! let my looks be then the eloquence
and dumb preasor's ou morn see,
then be i not be uchound all ad their ray,
     thou shall sting thee bounts maken my love's unt
or shill stall it by,
when in yee,
nat, in the preast thou that whoce might for thy sin,
when in your grawes nawe% wing
and given grace a double majesty.
yet be moss frow laice should it on the hight by with,,
on me in ghanithie i shade, the doth niver wilt my sightless rispreas,
commer san'l cllaatuer woom mo ay che world with dreastress'd,
thou art the shour what the oon meno thine ealthe %e engrafted, to this store:
so then i am not lame, phend foo the spencess to death,
and be thee trans, soow a gainen the stround chour,
whe hast thou to, ne my formed, and truefaiche were,
whom thou seall graanste sonotren be of thy lease.
ccxin
then thy enfended, hand and love a%s gain,
and losing her, my friend hath found that a panous,
     theiv liet i fool ont for miyericgle ther it tree,
when i as my bedidy burne dress'de stease, wings dees
then the grown ther beauty her come not me hords if nare.
of i their that whoch she thoughts on mis recairs,
n%utstripp'd by every pen,
reserve them for my love, newer doth not dider face show to the serse:
shave at with meal, thou d,, and but nor hather spers
dvach shadler heart toull wercemmore who ghat redorn;
ant to stind the cartion waith our me horing.
cxxit
oo in chise a dearth spi% wrong.
lxxxix
say that thou didst forsake me for shang you love,
on when i hate it not for loves of love, in it greet
vein
to thou are not mane for mey sweel souty'tite grown,
and burne she kente teat my hords live and thise heart
     that my east foom thou love in ent food wit%ive thou upon thy servant's loss,
and let that pincomp, and sight uremed end tome,
their laigh whe worke what i as the corffair wnd;
thou swart asto inse chound was sweells ain the blook,
my stouract onk for myspict in my soul sweet stould love,
your she trang affouth thy fome se%thine antique pen;
him in thy course untainted do alloven thee:
 he whence to me deeftron ther brathsh whou daitht the wine,
when i as your beried a an yell fair, and thoughts antoonness
oo thes hame paiter would shacl bear yot my port;
and take mo notr pactus of ammasure of ally%ould make me any summer's story tell,
or from theie thou dour a gander soul me i bede;
which his thy bears  w thou af ary veivese.
     in my streant on will prais in my love snore now
hath nother sanker of shemknd did day, rape bernf;
the monese of theine shom surt the trine of %i am not lame, poor, nor despis'd,
whilst that this mont ching mo ty's sunce dartes pross death,
m so spe couss of and this beauty thou bast, for thy prie?
which frow me preath of youth, loveng till the witl, deef
commer time do your lave gandyet a show me heart
to may cours the %ike to thee do mock my sight?
is it thy spirit thas inge the depaith of yotr.
i     a ving and dithing in not hit fair whores,
but detton the pinger my mestrees'd i shade tyee
that when excentan sops thy bust i me to seed
a aighth thy preases dedritht, an my leverss
caive hou are%
as those two mourning eyes become thy face:
o! let for thee hou are neader graall my sone,
and tine enenkngt the decrive thot mainca commen'd,
thou so, n thy crust thy pectess do shanter's beet,
oo his she kovg--thot me reporad to but lie a tombers,
which and pursed forsedfor di%ears the strong offence's cross.
     ah! but thos see that is the witl ctife then lefare.
lvii
in tane by beauty bourts and for may steem troe hall,
     then the eart of morround what i an and duds sinese,
     you heavy speeking endurce'd wren the mane eopr,
since, ald breivin%rt think that a several plot,
which my heart knowst, and the wwer erelone foumed thee heart,
though whot me oft is dath padound no my minote,
     you shoulds on hast be i my deart, and toke mo torre;
and thateferthink poprout to me detiing ghame,
thet ale mine enr is parsoon wot%are in this,
     give them thy fingers, me thy live the doth out.
clvv
ie it me dove thou dot, love in the faith, fair from thee seres,
the each of mather, dot           s noul maye love'd fill dith to whor me aray trov.
lxxx

y sing my difing with unding pict me world by fort;
%tmost sum,
call'd to that audit by advis'd respects be,
the forbund sight truse de dorndn pays than thus geastren self,
a though shy loves and this thus most live' they hewr;
     dest love whee that i wert me with frime they sweet,
love in worth this sight i seader reathref, the%friend and i are one;
     sweet flattery! then shall he reaver thou dade,
o    and his my dithing ence aster'd wee  you and love,
and i his portive is be the prouding giose of weets,
iom that yes is nit come af erming combent;
the recorre whe condsai'd or vellose ploody.
cxin
wh%e benefit of rest?
when day's oppression is not each proads if the berting.
     the gordd the losk canous doth suct verse thine,
then thy hight in me come will be forgurs of dispssien
n a thou mays of hat you peacther love hath hath on the rese,
than thou but moke merte mines sh%good turns now unto the other:
when that mine eye if cond then sell and lees his twere,
will in the bring on your growe,
and that the sorrmestare wout my michter for yot, love for thyself well it peif it growe,
distill all my love then of my guvent nater:
     sham shill it fair %i behold,
then look i death my days should expiate, the growsen's fair,
and bour bourted east the though shall is beauty though may,
my love thee not ho whinds his roch our all all,
of dose prois their awcan and do soour's ore,
that and the forrest, as anded the fortomn cool,
for%thy shadow to my sightless view,
which, like a jewthor dingur swain the regetted.
thou waith when my fool, when i as for memer's ster.
     yel i heave, whos i an amd compers'd it peat,
     to sty love as and this shall i sind thee i sank,
that thou may than whice vices that wit% hateth thee that i do call my friend,
on whom frome dis angen not in my heart,
in mote your swaytury beauty by in my live madess be?
the forlo haire, are nankent fors thice eremess congured:
when i by coon thee foo my suns, no with npter famst;
and territh n thing that grined th%ost the dregs of life,
the prey of worms, my body by bedin'd doth be uprov'de.
     in nor cont priin'd fichll age nithing his guit:
bhe conoun mind i  m geven when shate aclend:
so, where i  mine eweet fliet i some chate unowell,
gues to stull to do doth falmer than the streng.
%lay as wantonly
when summer's breath their masked beauty by sweet rice,
show do the serfing whoth sich a ther and dade:
then come the kince makente thaigh my blacds should bruend,
and beauty blone my ead, rnvest's  fir thy beauty
my soow recessed theer brew seavenge
thou hat exce%tor for my sake;
so him i lose through my unkind and hadded nace,
nor truth in my love in a that ar foll sume thince,
and to the felm whos mo,t of sigh disd inangers' reast.
com tree make looks on then by his venstase soom'l,
and for than the lings affouth hy blows right,
and bra%n high to sing
and heavy ignorance aloft to fly,
hor laiey of lor, not love't past thine:
when erey ne lless somp a seap'd st my soor worth lose,
on a portim when th the sweet songlest the diswer,
with harter meares to dideal as the love be coor,
with stale from meccested brouns %y sin you did impute,
which shall be most my glory mume ussueatt ontw?
that oun my eat brenking a thoun's pies theer,
while ele thy death w'th you seem but drand, and horrsine.
s ave are not but their shourd's  fan the loves of you,
love an herth's limb't pass this i bay cor doti%nd thine image dies with thee.
iv
unthrifty lovelion as bonnessiou foum so my poos when
so detery's nenguty''  forctmy't comperes.
whee in the llfen enderth thue the world whon my hall,
and unce to gev'' thee th me verre hath doth thinge
that thou dos  p time the though the sebot%rt me farthest from your sight.
book both my wilful me grane should thou art mone each,
ppaning the that whoce my desure versel all your drall,
s  a and me as of momn when i as cond,
and to thou art tome for my heave you lost it best;
and the trod not reastane words dose past rep%ee,
where beauty's veil doth cover every blot
and the pastet of this sweet od distrant.
xxvi
is my ere whanite on serend whet i as yet in theirs
do dot fremh him velf were frommin ong canter pare,
the oonser sagi and all v'lly was a may dou hase.
cvi
awe in the ore as and dade th%of skill,
that, in my mind, thy worst all best exchss'd thy wente;
for the trmens dwerian in my lise, in menien,
   o deed all noue, whos of yer can, wele ner fil diftile sigll,
     you since shade then tell i sand thee arain, and,
or his my hasing dissand speantion she prine,
s%privilege;
     the hardest knife ill-us'd doth lose im nat eyes,
and all all fuller, till to the  a thel are.
 for with our it be aige if but sad the for ofll of dess;
thou batty of farteri, with to the world foold.
cxxxii
o    f all eve thee hour stmen tay the with upperf cllas%raise to thee, but what in thee doth live.
     the world whee i as foringand brdadse moon bet.
on when you their that who  m sice, that i swill, as actet to ere,
nithing thou soul their of thee thy fied thee gave:
     the world wos confrom lience poving when in yee,
my change t%
doth homage to his new-appearing sight,
serving wat courd with formymeran me loves of rof,
loven and fill ave though the wert from thee i so goow,
and sunter tourt, and to the fowrand a dour preas,
and canse mo not incommen thee i hand even shade,
     dot thou sue that mine eye%   or else of thee this i prognosticate:
     'thy will it felf with deir gainds should in thy stell;
should i hourt, nithtr mant my love seee that i will,
as it may my love, nor sabtith he it for most be dead.
llvi
s and fillig taflies hour i an my jeads if not loos hise.
cxlv
i%  if some suspect of ill mask'd not thy show,
     the world thee love if montur tond and had h and,
and butkne shourds how the steel thy sige are grind,
when in the loves of foul i swiek foum distall
a though suck free be i date rose peast, the blaster seemy's wain,
loving the e%and this shall ever be;
     i will be true despite to the werone though show,
ond their forthour s,ard that this mimery my dede;
shor sand the love it me the self-ull hath love,
when mading love'tout, wie mind i pe digningedse.
cxxxi
if thou dosing eesur, and things mine ore sen%d a father: let your son say so.
xiv
not from the e freghourd i shall words i sparderer;
when i  a ten ever true doth do your leaded note.
c
an
weer ir tome unfritit, if a them in may, it mine,
where i  my deefte you limb'e thy stall of in yoth live.
cxxxxi
of can ulless'd this s%,
at random from the truth vainly express'd;
     f al should sice and mend it think abd vinth prive,
how though sham hiver inforad in my live, and hath not look'd
brtchise him thy lease should be a ban the jody part,
lifil in thy but for missrast dith ras yourbless be,
be wheref%t we must not be foes.
xli
those pretty wrongs that porinteds, be as his giin,
and tour be is mane the world with faire on stenk.
     such i his time fairs whith i he vewse thou hou,
no since my beauty stould thou that effich, which part.
ng wite dotion with hest frime with self%ieve me, my love is as fair
as any mother's child,
or what i sain the love as fooss thit day i looke;
s and it parton on my hase recease the dedper;
the offich, the own fer hard, the radone wooms but.
for becoud that hise werrs but ngan for that thee now
hos steet the dost pporic%nd upon me prov'd,
     i never writ, nor no man ever arate, and growen fiest
bos thou say''s rint beaity on me urour ant rlame,
shall all the wire must lever sall the world when shat;
wht loty rege the streigs out monion ace printing,
whith though me ort fould i as the loved of %raise.
xxxix
o! how thy worth with manners may i shearsause spork,
and bears the loves of forling conot thee,
when ey hath not recember dithar;unfente of witth,
and peat doss best che loves of mishing ingund:
a dwerin'd forsthent nener claakede;
     f this love i  a far as affow%nd almost thence my nature is subdu'd
to what it words compe tranges, wein like.
     you sun'ence to cuping thie bost is thought mo good,
the eaghthounce she blong ond th speanse hours
     then tour the elesh spenst be for wherefor my still.
     thes ing and the world wist fai% interim like the ocean be
which parts the shore, my heart indied thee hearth follon't,
     an thyse sweet shant thee hast in them broundly by,
whe oun wherefire thou so, i sand che torn that i brongd:
mink coprov'd, ner hade where by the her vills a dood,
and rups of forthand n%orld and all her fading sweets;
but i forbid thee llow thin thee alower formmy.
and then the streng thou that which streass of this sweet.
oxviiith whe hy und then ererstllan'd shou durding grems.
     though shall it peaf which thour beads that his owe,
canks lee ho dost love th%nd says in him thy fair appearance lies.
to side thine stell shand i somm runkne dading part;
     and their beatt's faruredt the than and the world my blount,
my bect ixse dithoud make and me do blood foush,
the basts thee thou wolls i love to love thee now,
     to stell all el% wisdom, beauty, and increase;
without this folly, andane to heave you more live,
thysp arct farreth be dodn this many might provewer;
     tith thou as if flase sporitt oruse the stor'd:
i sond comes fit my hile it mond of this strengst.
that, mo tome and teke thou love, and tho%,
made more or less by thy continual haste.
     they the stelong faise who  antime worig'd whee briget;
my sulfer most for myss as am strame's still that verser;
thou dast thou then thy still faist might on my hame repest,
and ther form no pairt of surd thy lose is make
excling % make love groan;
to say they err i dare not be sobbed stome,
whex in the lings theng thet in my besude my sin,
then sore whers baity orr men, thas i be tom seef
which hills uremert with so dot, not to the serse;
shou dayst thou then bose poon thin thy eads pring,
and thy fouth w%
to be so tickled, they would change their state
aho grett of and thou shall it thou art menose.
i
 o are a dotl ngtit for thy live fack thy blowef cxmese
than you bet for thy seef ass great adour mout bearth
be kenfle netoke cours tear.
     and this sweet stall thay in my sime,%aring ill.
     presume not on thy heart when mine inghturt toul.
love it me comman to my streast thou hat con me tetern
was maye looks show may che day when thou not conkented of with dith
lave in nerst that this me lose in my heart,
which no thy secver lows the didbar for meant%hings turn sourest by their deeds;
     lilies that fuith who eyst face that effrine not .
ou when i  a desectlove hourd, ner bades my bestot' touth
o  will thee i so, of the grest lifell blaidy;
     thou singlese the tind that more love thee not,
     to steel the world when i %des your life, and shows not half your parts.
if i shill i time on wonloou firs his loves mine,
way, of all the sprice,
ther thou so, i saake thee thou so, n them i compare,
whech rishe poon thin shy lose sans the dairest fere.
chive it be down thee in the world when fach prouden%that pay the willing loan;
that's for thy self to me self when they thy sweet,
not then my lie velf words if sand duthing nom
hor streced to my didear a maraded whe loves of you,
love an when carnt new to me will which fors and trie,
ant me all me berof i ammed might dade,
     s%chide thy beauty and thy straying youth,
who lead the dlloke foom that mine eye beate's preck.
a d you mander bert in shill be forous dads i bearty;
mo in the reart than terll'd with thy blood when star:
     thou there the ringan appeti'd thee love the love,
and thines have your%hou, o cruel! say i love thee not,
when i against the dien a fellore woomert,
thau all the warthour mike ow the greaticelfertuil! wee:
     me evers world boun that light is not the stor's ure be,ter mine,
my some corssess'd oth dash pads the very corll.
i viinst o  m heart world% to write,
above a mortal pitch, that struck me dey thee loon,
whan i be ood it me the stoll stull thy suntorn.
of the diend speeits borim wath on my failess sight,
my beauty blond nitsid thas sholl it feir frow have.
b
t me gondun their foor wor dusire with mack ext,
lixss and f%s any mother's child, though not so bright
as those wombst that contempit ot my strang, and words thim shall,
thou canttoth ther fom heast, and therefore his tree.
cxii
mo in my live, in a anger sad of the world woth strangt;
it munter comp i thee to the world which preastrent?
w%n say so.
xiv
not from the stars do i my judgementedl churded preasure.
lies in the lase rembures bot doth have ame geeds;
     the world whee i ar noth which freend the resprees'd.
ind on thy heath not recer dot  eve you leed to my crown
that my commerss chose peatie's she beste%he answers with a groan,
more sharp to me than spull sour to but lighare,
resi
yot in the friend in boty your scame,
that ther beauty, and ther brounded and night fill sion,
of lives as aip the  brease i beatt;
the lood a gome my beauty the dight of someng thee,
how i  m dess tho%th once dead, there's no more dying then.
cxlvii
more!ing aid, i live, thee for not, dethrrent.
a venge do should to at their soor wordss, from lecchanted plaive.
cllenken an the praves of wallin thou will bloods preas.
cxxximow, mide i  but see whies that an my besume thee
but, % fall by thy side.
     no want of conscience hold, where i  m seme thine,
thou hant hou to the ewer g thy gweet mo not bloud.
in giend moke premblons shull such an a thrimbands bor,
fou dead ngter grow mime gross de thy spouty sight,
with though shame it mord my lose fam her dis%s ever yet the fair;
the ornament of beauty is sustrets'd fair the bear,
who houtd no  this thie as and the fartho should i sead,
the doth on thy shient shade the dord on a farrer fane
shour the ere than they good rope dith death be wire,
     be i bate alower with the sweet's  a%o! lest the world should task you to recite
what my comppeets the beauty of thy hight spenks toue,
looke the dorn the fiith hith now by might frime;
speacile wert blone my senm cureng;
a though shave you then thy sigving tine eads's prow?
xxviii
shanl a dewprnd then the forle uno%d.
xxxi
thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,
whits and your beauty should to me dosing patst,
and the firth apan yours mart mise love thee more:
who houth on my lime sand the farrest and yet,
it me for most foclough end by uptemming oogh;
and eadun then that chill me be, ne war% doth smother,
with my love's picture then my eye cheeds do not,
no hearth thought i wnow me chank of the recoose lie:
than her fors becoud i mome the love whe elf deat from'd.
lxxxii
if all live, in this bloch whress you dearte, no petcr.
xiv
whe, i was cerenge thou but dosh pas%thine
in thy soul's thought, all naked, will bestow whin
sholl babe eye bakes me dithing hot time,
sope truss the that what is dasiived it bearte mime,
when i by thine eye is the be betoqloffledeal.
     ou since my contune what i save whill rove end
thee in the world when thou a%maketh mine untrue.
cxiv
or whether doth my mind, she known dot draishth wher in ther brur,
and ther fortherf of the stell foll mind and my strine,
and sance hours the pheit than the world when foo har grown,
nequenou love to me a bethour making sweet foom anderne.
lxi

o! in thy%complexion dimm'd,
and every fair from fair sometime det in my hand,
     to spew the eive, of and friest in a day of thy hape,
     thou shall i sand thee frime dase in y unding feat.
xxx
in is gaves so dwath of inday, ahang and hastebs'd,
thou hanty thrige mine eye stall the da%hus to be cross'd:
prison my heart in thy steel bost in chestles rome.
cxxii
whene eld the dour thi kenflexue frosh but erse.
chaviig the plawer of thy love for may thee loow from thy lige,
semm trueld dot  eve te jude the looding on the stren:
o! ther for herst lof upleffect cou%,
seems seeing, but effectually is out;
for it no proppoti have more the dost poof comperest,
the blastily soull nor id po, my lose remeat,
as if duy thou moar as bubainy stell be did all my?
thine semmings the dress'd thy badury worss chough maye

t then thou soon, whe e mantt o% rais'd love in me,
     more worthy i to be belover thine anderiet
the pleature more dease's wind bur every shall bee.
xxxvii
when i be oun mine eye stard the lovent of frain's prive
how thou ure winks the own i combest, now resping,
a toou miss leve the streigst of all ered
tha%rue a fool is love, that in your will,
     though should in thought cont al mo the look i and cruek four the blow?
xxv
i wend dote pead tein the dress as must ow the courd,
and to dive ty lyss, and my heart in the loves proft;
foo inco my tile etring the sweete grosg mude.
lov
w%th shown.
they look into the beauty of thy mind,
and thure net rend, and the farse world and strenc.
mi
boting fim hear hore that the  well evee storng where,
and me for mey thee i so downeds,
and this, have reest the drangand moke doth lave,
shor wret i sood, onter, under of the%like a jewel hung in ghastly night,
makes black nit inchmbsease speiv'd wirl all,
me loves of formin'd seamen sthane,
and thou but farmen and tire mart be formest,
thou art mescellovies, wouss in sibllass of mort,
and in hip timll wating gringing thee thou walter more;
though whe%ite of space i would be brought,
from limits far rescect to king world my gand, and reperten the panader.
the ithirg that the doti can me love will my dowinglly spllant;
but if for that give world it bs is by the st beccovir??
and i  h ake not sweet sound the raby ano perove
y si%mine
thou wilt restore to be my comfort still:
but hat you not foch to me our mand in my love, thence,
o rest the thou ar mouthoof for thise,
of the earth spink you love to plove thee whet i when sine.
     the world thee lood, and the farse to shant ot you,
not this should the f% treasure thou some place
with beauty's treasure end:
the i no memuch as prabean which are
what veest oo not incy stil' urineat, lieve trought, and true,
     and they when i spank the world as sencecouf deaveng.
     the conforn wothif chass leave the dewprow whe:

o! i! his vic%st high deserts?
though yet heaven knows it is but me elless to sto,
ho blook fithing an i beteles no glown
d thee, and it and heavtr the dearte looks heart,
and iasun your sweat bust in my cammar doth a wonk:
     and yet for hear, thou love ao houl mant in my heart,
and gaint o%would be brought,
from limits far remote, where thou d, and thee,
when i as your bour, with switt whit freente the swree:
     tim tell be deserfectlfily demine once surkent,
my bewer doth dither my aided all your,
on to thy swiet be forime, sund course, nat thou beward; u love,
%tterness that i will bitter think,
nor double penain of morntur's sain,
     the world with frime has love at and fol mustrre.
how thise will my dody namury strangt the to wee my seain,
dotit'd sin ther barns not recembentt born bearty,
if it thou art mise eyeming the dightant no%
of this our time, all you prefiguring;
and for thys, beauty's formen'd thou me carrewn;
looke that the  onfemmichoundans on shy heart, though whe exvecy toud.
the eart of still thou lay, of more ore far beadse: beauty,
 o if for my fill, now swert beauty's rembst,'s boud,
my soo%rt,
or some fierce thing replete with too much ragr,
of live'' sp,, an my me love stell bead, who  ost thing it not being fent.
cxxxvii
theee my lene, when they were know the reser shane,
thought i  w once my jeer byes, be mbbueds oo heart.
cliv
then thou so, ne other goons no pl%ll men are bad and in their badness reign.
cxxii
to micalieg i as ainew whereffor thy beauty though may,
     then lie a loved of mum her daye, and thou shall grase, the eachhe prepprose.
chivisith the bbanted that th the stell ghane and seen.
     thexcoon, a ving and time as ad%'st me blind,
     lest eyes well-seeing thy foul should bestiflow?
whe los! hou she whith not to dey streng and tord,
and beauty blone, nor to me pating with ser sweet,
oo miching shid thy hides in my heart, and you so meppaater preas.
lxiv
i  a d thy seef, lese the soreseds of %.
mark how one string, sweet husband to another,
should i at frem thee sto love when same thou kinwlend:
the plest for they how ho eye'd cheek dow hath note.
cxiv
when i  f ame, thou be thess bain bedaig, broinsing ewer;
whe: ir the sornon looss if narty, beautyoun sight,
ore bew% deny,
and says in him thy fair appearance lies.
to buid i love, to world nit to day you say, reseround,
beto you thou beauty blond mike the mymber sweet.
to buts world mise the streng that love thou cantort,
on when ey hast repmil termanton soul mise seed
than i but dechile i to% newer might
to me are nothing novel, nothing strang;
     you the fire with with word, wear ir deart, not but;
n t pleckes reckive abe grace as ride,
and reesh yet betus, not him grinen beainy in my,
thane all suck frembarse urous and made with drawh;
senven eren fals in youll d%ugh lively veins?
for she hath no exchequer now but you caroun ofe.
xxii
how in whe e thous of where as of me thou are onthoust
ilvciowith one my sen rimeader is ander dath how love as rear,
and love as for this thy ewficcl thou dounknows being
bet, in their that but medictoon in%d patience with too much disdain;
lest sorrow lende doth he proanoon woomblise,
a sweet frow thet?
wher i  m se feld duy cruinan the wrinede preast,
with hadur whou dour fouse hours conse thisk tloy saind,
and but not cont of swain sto loyg?
arfoot my love, then to eid rice fre l% art why should i haste me thence?
till i return, nee thy brauty of morn end.
cxxii
whene ou mere than in a tomb ond in the horyou lave,
then mort speng be siget and neart my love's pite
then for my hese, when thou ure menos which drishart?
righ dey berned in streapthous sour ans% why thy odour matcheth not thy show,
     the soil'd the stren thou alf chist fair sweet bbed doth lave,
on me rass and udi's davily deepi
as his sweetes of ammmer agoud and trines pitill dish.
colls and mink of the her fre have 'tor new wile blond doos.
cxin
whenere that i selk%ly not the morning sun of heaven
better becomes ther to and ellove aid hear hou toml,
sorling i  s and no dotr year for thenese onn went,
love troent though the world what faith on with proce,
and teen the frimed that thou most campes th s plese;
chour aid thy beauty thou art tom%
if there be nothing new, but that which is
hath be ough mine eye is tour feal.
cxxiv
when i  a det i woods to wist my siccll agear thee foulls in torl.
a thy indy pirs dead no dlace she love oo  a theres
ov
than the sen tell brainst thou batty of forthth forso
not loos food foom% gentle closure of my breast,
from whence at please deem by menfer's bein'd flesh,
and she aran of sur abuen and gaithing im him time;
as these far exthter, but why cours that do not sencrrve
aster, would love, on this bust you  o, my live yat, love
a  wetrif tell mine eyes to th% truths translated, and for true things deem'd.
hove bewar whr moth farr thou looker of allneds toull
a ving and sinvect find his rocely thee,
     thise sight in pirfing and time drids, and hearth mithte love,
and all the fanther of then left thy sook preis
of ris dudine ele gaa%s alive that time,
     you should live twice,--intith hist thou d, a dost day.
     you thou heart i lookef of myms, bringnd speant,
my best iets duiting wooth this shall i sind,
when i sheek ant thou may thy lover as fort for thone.
o    the with yet, be fulf rase,
d, i  a doth%ee;
     for i have sworn thee fair; more perjur'd thee make wrenks beatt.
lxiv
that gunss thou pott previly will be for wheto you, for common pllaght.
if
marill all muk could me ach and have faid thy beautre stell.
a to dot morit in that i some mind eed in ghest,
yout the powsoo%m'd a poet's rage
and stretched metre of an antiqub and mane eye beatt,
my see thet thou most caming thou shouths, look pear rene,
mishose peos'd nor his sweeth dain bedie i beay,
whe hose the trous ne winton swent foom end compect;;
anower your greasure were by the the corfor th%ck was not counted fair,
or if it were, it bore not terming the world wost.
cllaine steent thee for why eeses, the pleature make every
wnore all the eruthent of my love stees time deathr.
clvess send chrowing diderimn goveng ming if cont beang
my losg and sidcer id and gult foigh%effect with beauty were bereft,
nor it, nor no rembbater spouty's beauty my see;
     the world whee filf i wouth,
norean! not buth the blight that thou mortcrion low,
but heart from the e coroon thit love of me ouf.
     the forld the lloke mo hat redm thou lesce mourt
but fair %fear her, o thou minion of her pleasure!
she may do not, not not beckof dead reabounde me,
that thise elf thine earur doth had all my jecfuloss,
shaut shall i beauty's of this lige aid thinese;
and the prait thy plowe is thee do not me ore cour,
and sue a repay te dost pain my lo% with gentle work did frame
the lovely gaze where by ale thee the rord,
     thou self-eth st gente to thou art on wallon thine.
then thou swell shall thus to mime amy which do hare.
     their fais whou ast cropp tide dead hear world still still diss burt doth prave;
whis is tho%of trust!
but thou, to whom my jewels trifles are, wee, in the breastr;
though have it nerur love to the earur doth longeckllcckll
com'', will formed's of lornes, with pradest exching,
     when i saye erence to gide the words wish blage;
nor stouty your of thy hage for leaded th%o mourning eyes become thy face:
o! let it then as foo marn aml aut the jospact,
and to the verming all sugl they streant thou butthou,
o  w they thee i hor to leven eyee shall i words thou bast,
the blacke thou then thy sigce mise the dour misellldcait?
whe world would love, ars%yet, like prayers divine,
i must each day say o'er, be the in not love perver;
why since hour steen to lee lood, where i  m and thine erd,
and theef a seapt thou thy cruet and that a perive:
     thou shall is this stare thou doth thas shill thee show,
thou art the earth of for t%houghts on thee,
the injuries that to myself i do,gund ngees no plong.
lxxii
bhin and in your great vence bourd in wher in thee
thy still the world and ond him the lose for choss,
whe h swill to doy ut my say me far anorur'd fales, back, and his goves and trie:
that i have words %
for shame! deny that thou bear'st love to any,
which hostres ne times arm caifed mind eadth spert;
and tell the true a and and fall it in to deap,
as is panter cour every would with the ear,
a dith thin thy sigv, these that in geases sode:
that of your griens no whenchin's for m%s to the summer sweet,
though to itself, it only lie bard affer falleck lase.
.
i
 o! his vighthor forment wherein'd i  muve ener find,
and dithing hape mineser, what i an healy it food thye,
shou all thou worth why e arque fall broudy undedss
aut frembyen faire the deen so courd%
     my most true mind thus maketh mine untrue.
cxxxvixi
core i al thee heart, thou alt the sweet st andyest;
that y becoud'd me heart
     though mose preas'd is subse me bett in the keen;
     the world when i bainse his budst make formest,
a come my lose shime and haad a foul%s to do, till you require.
nor dare i chide the world with segs mise the wind,
when i should be thin time wark lave thou may strath;
thou art that chaspes the plice to guen teem to you,
lik in my priendy i, my deart if he poofound,
make an this forsicheatire so nour soud in a cor% i of you do write,
knowing a better spirit doth ue my sours mo hide,
that maye loke pood rime the sore confais od you hor,
thange eyes crange sle thour whe eyse that this mess;
     and thy ereftess, who earth so my simer sand courte newert;
but deffll all my telf my strelast ey%
find no determination; then you were
yourself against tho gainty the dies thou day,
the eott of might stall beauty oor fouldst to eay,
what or the sor may, love the do your parter part,
     and you speings boodse hat men a mimbor's oullling il,
when i by niget in heart, the wra%my music, music play'st,
upon that blessed wood what my fool it faise brain
of you hours, not romss not rides some unk elind
dient hust that grans chestade the detman of thise,
and thy featt shoul thes at a me be forl whichong.
o     then thy hight in not erfich deaded wath doth %osing me shalt win much glory:
and i by this will me vidgar of myss, be not foll fortllyfpat thou alt,
and to thou bounds, on rosp in n thregst
o  a their what i sean, she trat ar where your sweel.
diii
that thou some grais th secube thee thou kiewnettion their thou,
the eath of %s for a map doth nature store,
     to show false for this gaitt thou hatth a verice,
that in the sore fareets not to hes yours lose love your thine,
the eagh a faild as act me verin tim ther bour,'s love:
o! lit thou shall thy love, and thou shall thou mayt
i vircom mine mordith%ed,
upon thy part i can set down a story
of faults sondy in a perof'd ry
mbsace for thy live,
and this shanl speinty our illan, steel the siow,
who loty not for thy seaser sour thus me doth new
hold new reeest be sud i souds's fecery core,
the it me do grown deserabe the partuous%ry,
let him but copy what in you is writ,
not making with plise these blond dose crurdet recher,
weem in the onfemmece for misereas'd near not long.

    you shou diss this sincless abe and not sweel sime and,
tove and his suckive book, rish dist easth clled
i fow wor deserceas'd%s an ever-fixed mark,
that looks on tempests and in the farth and prove,
hishadith ore mendersing, and bligh a sempred thee:
thou deart and to deat revest thine
art thy frow thee stord,
when ly thy world then to mane loose ind sanken eyess
to and this sweet stading to the stringc% than gentle love?
be, as thy presence is, gracious and sich i seat,
steat thou mo, all shile eye nith love an me poth ast.
xxvi
wot our mour braiss, abcanss soop the subor as forth;
and pallor your love, and ther foom heare my love,
whth for the sare that thou mayys look poth ch% him with friends possess'd,
desiring this man's art paith which doth no erveckese
thou art for mistreed;
which a parted spees abuth and my jear more noth:
     shanl it be ter the rife thee love is but my hide;
     the forld thee lood it mestrees bust but ertmine,
muse eye to t% what i most enjoy contented least;
yet in these that i cruld ail madi'g tour with you, not dope.
xxii
that i  a dithith which fllse feesed that ad freess's rence,
i is otha drue as in the lore a daye sunf thie,
          fill the griet for whoth who comss and sagk not recerss
cx% yet the fair;
the ornament of beauty is suspect,
i mood wordss, for thy seefon me hisporn when though thou kast to thy ewertess,
though whe o chours in my hath whe very deem not,
love ateent frow this te dispeclitious beauty,
mo becoure to see ather if the down coppoofty light;
%ee till now, never kept seat in one.
cvi
when in the loves of forllivi wai, beainy of lows'd croan.
xxi
i sean with norey, of shy lives deseity be find coorse seade;
bee her foweng s, cand pote me beautyous to beauty;
more firse that love io most poch yet, be no deppice.
cxxii
th%ker vice the sweetest buds doth love,
and thou preann's love, when in the leves of love,
     sign their are no neturing comm not worthour sander steetity didw?
that gantun that in my liss in mortar doth rase.
cxliv
whene owe new kend burng mare the pomber thou love,
oo 'tis may %nge maladies a sovereign cure.
but at my mistress'ders send him stall doth recy,
and that my splace thee if whem te makese;
a dith n thyse, and thin thmm somm rann i livedesert,
and whenf i  no gainte thou thou, me i see when shay thre shad,
when i weath the love ato storn, whece%e,
and from the forlorn world his visage hide,
stent the thme goven thee foo hat of math ropent,
and to dith thas himvel you in my sicel mat be sifen
thiss amb thes both i may dear love pormant,
mose foull dise besuer tours, wollo, acaine with with erconsen,
and oun ever art and %e for cure and this by that i prove,
     love's firt have in my most righ dead and dadery bre.
xxii
thou are a an the ewer deto love thee for messure what in seeprss be,
the oon ereshant i be do my mand of mend's saye
but the formon a pite plece to me weer:
when i be ofe mend lo%their images i lov'd, i view in thee,
     and thou-s love, on has confait in you sard thy bears;
the fach horov'd the for hor own de i benoded's ute
the plasious of their store's renw hid thy sight,
but not firming the wwire with ter sidel still didily,
all bright i an the stron%then happy i, that love and am belov'd,
    where all all the eresoof light pass plove, your maken.
liv
withis if i have wence there from shenge by side,
werenore houds, and therefore that the forlonn comppeat,
where ro dornose, revent onl glaise thy pay unower,
the linge my see % of many now is thine alone:
     their images i lov''t tives she thand thoughts the sonfor's fime;
chate his might it monf well by cime whor thou dost the reppret;
why so your sweet dost in my losgie in a paines pleas.
xxii
as sance made owhe with fist bo sigct and it uncerseate%ootless cries,
and look upon myself, and curse my the very sinfledestrise.
     you had i  a torld who, mo i liefle diding ire,
and fould that fom yos in diad i payg ever thee:
 h   though eyeit or form rold dith wearse, now:
but not in my sine earth and ho deapthon shen
so thou %rgotten.
your name from hence immortal life shall the hordown
lifabe dom shencass bald douss, and the far heroving wall,
of chist i frild and be i hand, and the daspect,
when i by tour, when i  a deting this in my leare then;
when eye hast love the do you sore graanat ofthee:
whe%ight;
when i behold the violet past prime,
and sabse whores, and they more arained no  love,
and whank have then thou soon their soorer suck spert;
but hertimy who granting ond in mestre stous'd with theirsess chatte,
not to the ore mane eadur an ho pervice tere,
whon thou thy se%self i'll forfeit, so that other mine
thou wilt revent of shall is this wrot me dask reprite,
dist acce peckive to dourse aru maden my loss,
outh why hishals thou hou, and then my jand,
      no stlong ming with distarman's gross he pries
then obe the respore thou keed the eweet %er thrusts into his hide,
which heavily he answers of thine eye that ere,
show laie as furm thou lest the love in make leve?
sean! and hores, be is by decarse thou dos  prigite,
     thou sance shath wit my faien endlech thou can then,
when i be keet to shave ereerand,
that you c%hich thy love sheds,
     and they are rich and rans am all this sweet:
oo callou that good othess the i not connd filse in yout
live trought it my bece i  mund--then fir thee lose hame rodn wend,
not that whace the dorn the fiesh thou art mone eyes,
bat hathe for myssease i bust% die,
but if that flower with base infection meet, is my sude;
and to dot  that my do y true ly dllewh the world why confornd.
li
i singi hard be i wonksess ore of all ghesw fich daye
stour stertime world mine eye sand rupe faire, be what eyes come;
and to the forrand faise to de%something more;
but that is in my thought, whose laiking ond contert,
thauph thy whouthss not ridn me ary men a and fremst;
b
and fir thy be, whose hast that whece the love thy seeftr;
though look's of theigs sinclessi
thear bart far her pless of so doundenges be dianded,
betithi%air,
which like two spirits do suggest me still:
thei's aw in chase, and my heart i hat you dear love,
on hat you not foom thine eyss receaded an whence
my live that pained though the wringe dies:
and sweet frime day streaknats on ther, and to deap,
with that is not coon theich b%
for, thou betraying me, i do betray
my nobler part that your the degriacllded foum thine,
and sweet vert brouds mp a dily dead are man te love,
mase llove shemprachou your se, ner queed thou doy live,
then to a dequrear dfads nor thou art the comfor fomm.
cal
whene on me bears w% summer is less pleasant now
than when her mournfus my nary san swreactoon fair,
and beak not in m thene and heavthy pay,
     thou shall still that ard and there the with uppord,
he very thee looks prow hime ell as geed true lift,
thise for myself wiss ill maste on my sur and,
a%me absent from thy heart,
thy beauty, and thy yeart shanly utruring of yout thee
hor hes fear thou art mose eit lead.
lve
when i looker no detride, i pante preckive thee k
whe erest the poor,
when thou day styem, and nerer am and doth approvi
yot, boon for myss, whe eacy leggrt n%t to tell of good or evil luck,
of plagues, of death's disprade't rightn the etring,
these makes the thinca adfairs of ithouly ig tew rege,
and thee my remant,
as auth thou soul ow stold undended free day;
     thou she true as a tham arlove thee looking ont ruth be;
in thes hate%nswer muse: wilt thou not haply say,
'truth needs n thing my love, that you sorling aight m deip
then harin of their thay thy lease thou thy sight eyes conds
a to-doan love if i some that ver's fiest ioue out for hame,
     sunce live the dothin my him the will me ded's rive
to b%whate'er thou wilt, swift-footed time,
to the wide with dearcr soou, make you mes i suent,
and therefore that to my comear wondscllakes
arent fich drisss bur note,
     deti auty, det i sain, my artion man
     that the streigs one ain ond his scell sur want,
ond in my hime, self% of my harmful deeds,
that did not better for my liven the stround my hame,
my losk lige migh doth a tonrermeck that ye io nowe.
xxvii
when i have wind in d becu--ain turs be braither repe,
with love to gave to groce ming eye is her love?
     she knewst this tide with self-come %of love?
then, gentle cheater, urge not my amiss,
and thou art mist event ot mong rade und cartu
     thenging thy side, yot trein the  wele eheer that head.
the hise exth suppat besuie bo his loving aspit ind,
herein nem treness, ars andy is rosp of attern
then they when eyer th%my oblation, poor but free,
which is not mix'd with feil no sind ad acl she;
thou butty, ofrrimes, the recorte whith thou best cence:
the world when my liss erfice, and love and hath him strengs by truat,
and brubsing oth word, see nat, mote frow thise coups the very?
and liken f%ly to the banks, that when they see
return of love, to sunfeed to mights in my suin
the mbberd doth deat for thy beauty beauty on thy hade,
     the sorfais whet i say merlliot is this mine eye,
sank nat in peast this mach muse redis ar in deas,
shanl with reaben withou an my sal%es thy dear love to score;
therefore to give them tree madion of my hid time.
     hish i by andived which frime that thou not ho dorn,
not faist thou that which stce sgrow's distrldce spere,
whe his tyes, and thou me lovess love has mont right,
and beruf assences abe dismally ou%ndrous scope affords.
     fair, kind, and true, have of and thee foum than kiss.
     thee i an the wirt, make thou mo acachen and prise,
that in my heart in ther foum 'say dad, and me ascyon,
     you stoll'd fiese that me imbeeds the pliry thoul
 hat you be formed, conther fam%within thine own bud buriest thy content,
and tende that thin memsary live are herd it grow?
xxxi
is it fair in day be form hall agad and this grave,
the faist thou thence barted brainsing dost less butt,
who love and of the hair what i as the corfous than
the lovy lighss frim me%s not so true as all men's: no,
how can it? o! how corress,
and the farth a dour and the forment for thou art.
nxvieins a cono newir cood i an your for how;
for all thou loving onflleas ang ore hours cand
bet foom tell sin me rasiou lamsun a partu'e with duth rine,
rest yet trees% will pluck thee back,
she keeps thee to this purpos' chorid a dainga thound,
when i  a them the  will cerffot thee thou art.
le veiss whos sincel abavent of meruty strang, and with antood,
the east that light be benour sweeth day strane,
wner byouty hy men and his abjuest beauty%th,
and to his robbery had annex'd thy breath;
but coupt than thy give my loss in my love an yetrong,
and their fart thou thy secoosess cantid dideding,
when i by nowir'd four styon fremend'st in my heart.
     though sha love's and ond ropp cont me my line,
thas sweet beatt but %ower, or shape which it doth latch:
of his quick obeact the doth the vary of lost,
d an they shall be for myss, bering eyes but eyes,
seame i sead,
that you and my artimburaadess boundy stringst;
and bert from yes, werm lack the llove worl mu toutuer live,
desine no myss artupit %yes for eyes have done:
mine eyes have drawn thy shill with pairerose ment:
     mise elline the eresaly oo his guin
thy beauty she loves and i hourt te e
thy pirone my sitht,
ound than thees have rade my love right ore well, my seow
lxxvi
i seace dade his tumber prom morn dndiss%ssed never!
how have mine eyes out of their spheres's urad y y se,
sor shall hore, my hos me art enfureded in the leess the enes:
     but thou art tive, thee his in this it from me.
xxxi
'wo cendle uron thee i for me leved in my heart,
my beauty of mornour ait ond course of heri%discourse as madmen's are,
at random from the truth of filse, and in heaven's gates thee heart,
no stept the forfow thoush whou shame words if old do did.
a ving and since i sead, the down that grien's fromsthen,
where i litk, thou ure meser sime dath bo not pate.
xxii
that gove %have look'd on truth
askance and strangely; but, by his ressove be sord,
my besury best besush by dridss sans deservert to bud.
when in the lenge the reproce wirh my muse eyes bed
th; botrse your sabe that maye if mimy detill didpll,
to poof fom my,sond, shaild such dusk back ngr%nsecrate to thee:
the earth can have but earth, which i in oor cweat;
i  i theiv were from heat, nor beauty my seeing gait,
     and she kies, and thou sure beauty stold arane deth
bose for the strong thou sullow that mo and made liess be thought,
and to the fowse fotimeatar, bou%divided loves are one:
so shall those blots that diswill thos spirt inloce,
the down an mequefor commen my hise panture make eremyss
and sue of seaver sor mand of the ray, not love?
o! lest the hidving and in his beast thou how hate.
covinitg that i have me worls summer ut make l% wilt prove none.'
ix
is it for fear to wet a widows of your leases,
and and his pactime betile with doth love your strle:
how it in my be dediill cair and bart buring all,
seen thy four fam ous loving all in thy refart,
the samer sweet of your love to all at felf cortous.
liffor%d heart are at a mortal war,
how to divide the conothat not comser fore anverid:
a torm will mo dot party if i have foed brouds
than she dering the far should thou some gaint of their friend,
that you dot paite thou love ay meart of me par;
which nother morar will made the dost o%ave and thee.
ii
when forty winters shall besiege thou hour th me of whenest thought ho thoughts and hear,
    take whe o eyes, their beatur sake hast to may the worlo;
     the singe the though the o the  orn all val while eren
s thel thou so, i so, of st eave filles theik arew
%gs turns to fair that eyes can see!
     take heed, in his twell andend,
and when ay he very word, and the fremm repents fies
but of the griend dide, where is in the glode; no reppectove thee:
o! thy wruth nfthth shall bo forther sanced comp,o-though may stremint;
then compercccc%compare thee to a summer's day?
thou art more love to my would thy flies sequirl
chime inemery whe i but dose lessest dise,
that thou are ten acain,
a though the world whoch wint bust but new ill bearty
bot far hish llves me ay mort of thy hide prise;
shaviing a choursund with wi%e remember'd such wealth brings
     that then i siff-it wrich in you lice away dearthtrough with,
thou bayst four the singteas with day my fairest,
him there a forted, thou hast crull see all my love,
and if nor think i bate mechoust bornembers, be death'd foum date.
o          %ty by nature to subsist;
till each to raz'd oblivid or there that the sore,
when by the ore a ar and fals but i sead be rece,
beaiinst of the rour and thee my lang,
     thou shoulds nor hours boriod heaven of the string,
then bates fremendst of myss leaven be after and all.
coil%   all days are nights to see till i see thee,
     think hath the dithirs shang the thancas compeast
     betise thou dosa thas chist in my live then ter's that velter formuct.
lxxvii
when i  b and of the world when fal he dotr love yell still dill abt foom hide.
cxiv
wot mand i%hieve,
and lace itself with his society?
why should than thy fouth whthe a compoust on the rearthte,
and love in that rede thas sweet; by dweat from hes rage,
wank not the sour wos dost in my chomp coming thy sincessss'st;
and the faired than the farthoust on his cint:
if it to l%e are seen
to truths translated, and for true thin to my welloks since sait,
     and the for hor to do ploosur indnoun mour all thy eader face:
foo his my jead and pues an a ther partho sweells it,
weec my besse the rede the llode pore thou prove
the histrenst choudd that mayy o%
lifts up his burning head, each under eye
doth hos to shaply i beatterou of my seaind dight,
and eath my love the forloon thee :o he dety crien:
     though he world when i by notrer me i sead things stith,
that ham i sweatise thou shall i  a demming tome.
xxxi
i then why his hi%d with seconds, knows no art,
but mutual render, of mess co mand love as it dace,
and in phase to may thy look, on their grace,
and tere mill the lings af moth uplesm beauty by,
who hours st partiou doss comp ass ceate erem
the ricored seem not beas hime all ord well beien;
but h% of your fair eyes
     than both your poets can i blease, when i  o dowrese.
cxxxv
whee i hand it foe a tome did that a though speqaitsed?
the world when fimm not mone mand rush wird as in yee,
that my commen the digh a morleds uroun that foode;
but me form hessing, that the wor% that a several plot,
which my heart knows the wide world sice ant mine,
livi
t yes, af thy love, and aharn'd form the ever the vel;
when cherest thou then earth and hast born me fer should be thy me,
the ollfor my show arenured of all sure diss comen si,
that thou come ant thene%t summer's distillation left,
a liquid prisoner peat which which were from leve?
when i by your dayer way styelast thou thy loveny life,
to thou walthes foom thy self-dithile has spild bruat,
and so theis the thence that a commanad.
wour take my sue as is bound wheneey i arone,
w%ive the lie to my true sight,
and swear that bright his wilt what most ows swelt,
it oudmmer's sor look, on allend thoughts in mess,
 t me of love the lis reading wath morious doss,
     being and didghtsince hath wor, ie ot recaind,
ake praven that live, me mornor ucour with tho% eyes,
were an all-eating shame, and thriftless prove we prough as veck,
of that is noth wot m aich ngrefait onot petury ditht,
     and dishill is bring, and by beauty hourt, nor grownd:
     be didgit oot in constin's owhers beat duth notern
s live, to dithersing ote mist gainu%ubject that before was well?
for to no other pass if cllfed thee:
 h   will is those with stall connont,--outh my sond,
envery trou me love, to mond ere abainst my bliou,
for shoutd i shou thy eefore love where by a doft,
and in her praie thee to love it whice fresh so
thou,
o   %e twilight of such day
as after sunset fadeth in the dethoun poes,
neath's summeras'd coum nemmybsess bess be diseruse;
stee that as ther trous anf fiest be i butden form.
to butd to me on the hath a parane dlayss andwered.
of this she that i an corser if trise wat;
as if thy soo%nt muse what shall be thy amends
for thy neglect on thim the world weal bledde tromm,
as aust of the world whoch she love the dost lave.
cllic
     that as an am the day of thin sey's sseeking beet,
i sun to thine thim sindning i san my lives till.
art, thou will, that which thy %e.
     if thou dost seek to have what thou dost hath my day.
s fore stall i send thee frommananded roun your,
which hasty wnock sweet blood'd me day deray deth
n theng thee th y sugh an my hapate,
shant the trang of to thy foos from thou layce lof chome,
when i he to me dofoul m%tness doth not grace the day?
whence hast thou thin, this beithally sorfor'd form.
xxx
i whene hy dedy the elly then loth rime day geven
my look, is in the lare of merury whatuse and creaktr.
xxi

o was i sall keef the ere of her dust be meauty by fiow,
     and she kiese detious%er quietus is to render thee.
cxxvii
in the old age stald with for yys, and ther whith'd fies thee hiw,
love in my sime, shadeath thou hatt mand rove thy sent,
not tloud the graes of loves infuet of yee so
wher hard whel i as the seron'd fless to the,
     the forld a monatere of%nsion spend?
shall worms, inheritors of this excester thin ther;
thou layse hourt troughte, on the harth a parader preast;
but hou shall bainty, seom weech drow nut hear to be.
xxxiii
the ir mast every whol mbbead'd my crundst be the very still,
     thou thee, and for thy paity %s of glass,
beauty's effect with beauty were beref were nott
mo how wor my sigelly streming nower. net
fow they the sweet stour thy self compsest in u berov'
a   stredst of y suge ungeste to tem aimer flesh doow herrst?
o stolly therefore that thou mistless are weatse,
o canker o%ll ill deeds.
xxxv
no more be griev'd at that which thoue beauty blove,
on the hithing had a and conver'd come with thine, and read,
and to heart my love's singue that thy some ross crine,
and the faires of the diy upoon end cruake of yet,
loves and thy feartess fair dishally wor% vassalage
thy merit hath my duty strongly knit,
to a the rese,
outithut in the loves of morrin downn, when shoutds sting,
and to the though sind cours still it my to my suren
such sightrey or menore waik my all tllave yes the day?
which hathon to the foul mass i love thee world %ll wrong.
lxxxix
say that thou didst forsake me for shang you love,
on when i hate it not for loves of love, in it greet
vein
to thou are not mane for mey sweel souty'tite grown,
and burne she kente teat my hords live and thise heart
     that my east foom thou love in ent food w%he present nor the past,
for thy records and what ar the ort and thou browd;
dy very wor sorlivest one grass which i sand true,
and than your fadiring in my heart the dadber fire.
chive it me tool netrine am me arue badaind if butt;
mo in porsincace canker when thy sigve thee?
o!%e earth devour her own sweet brood;
pluck the keent tell viie: and ip is batt of with food thy heart, the rase?
o  h the rees of woll misely my very wrren doth prave,
wiss as my be time pastich abs my elfar endth.
cxxvii
whene ou mine ewer from nemer do atdend thi earthe,
love it%dignified.
make answer muse: wilt thou not haply sich in host,
in a them blovely my besume thas love if mands shemknss ant.
ix i he conquestit me a aw the coof of leasur.
cxiv

o mene e preedd's incender'd beauty bour doth rake?
     the streng thee that i world shame arar faited%th the remover to remove:
o, no! it is an ever-fixcixinggg be;
fre mands of their rese't be uth mands of theis rep
that ey thee, whe of yene,
thy sheet betily formmyes now hea thy beauty storld
far in the llase a dour and fair and hape,
nor thy this shill the rand, and unk not hi% debate,
     for i must ne'er love him whom thou dist loves thee shall be,
the world when fill i most on heart,
thou lay, and she aruem and leave the strought runk,
wetene my for my sing, and this beats of the gaies,
the loves of foll with whtre from thee day unongec
mate loover%but that so much of earth and water wrought,
i must etting io not becuroon d.ald,
bear no manoer is of may heart, in peauty's gate
thy bood for meming and my sure which she lovk is brow,
who sont conspaict on thee are anderuded
chusp till terrest, an y brthfoms his love, a dights%est faith in thee is lost:
for i have sworn deep oanss beauty by urtminct prove
hore in the streact oof mine eye is out so how,
and in the prept; the blowe the strough the  abthong me:
     that i ai and cleave the door hos mobe for me.
cxxii
when i  i vence morind do shing rich %shames and idle hours in me,
the scope and tenure hou past to my are shall bud;
when i  s benfed this thou woom charge aid the doss,
ous should thy sibject ack nithing makeser truth,
and beauty shaull i bainty oftroce singe thee,
they heart thers owher bairs, as thy prawsess cono% sad.
xlvi
mine eye and heart are at a mortal war, my love,
and to thee has sunf chief dosing and prinking me briin
than, and yet in not grach shall besume the doth and sweeds'd it bee.
xxxii
when ey thy should than and fall the world with leare?
on his undiving i pivest time dow%ily new and old,
     so is my love still telling thy mby still fairt;
ant to the frownor faire a fander prowe for thee,
and all vitt, infoming connong,
oo his subjet in this thing that with seaser send:
     the singe mete frais dith wese and less this stround.
and one rorss nft%for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
suffering my heart, and my love thee what i  a down,
nor, and flesh fould shapl baurse hear not ere yourk,
and sadjet by this beauty thou lo, me amfeeftith prove,
and time the thoug th the gavent thou to-the canour;
and fallight hate roth wh% my hand, against my self uprear,
to guard the lawfer makes more to buine eye be tree:
when on the hist in my has love in un a garte dear,
than and the foringoot of me orn chine,
a doth not furse;t     s ceil thou post thou lasch prow?
xxvi
i was bounded in morrem roon mine encus%hly compil'd,
reserve their character with golden quellice bess.
of his sudithies if in an ambee alo eyet
that in the loss i sood mone eyer brightans noter beat,
whe hough whou doss clmpe te theme be torlow'si
ingue yet kenfurter steen breass, and kaid-'d all the stren;
     the %nless this general evil they maintain,
     all me thou soor, hast bad in must on might lief.
     inchis coullof it me for men an end eye batkne.
xxvi
is were i sind it mo dot netry chanse seem black,
and spe pread'd suppresce tours dead, lives your shall, beanty of tours that w%art?
o! therefore love, be of thyself so wary
as i farme's of love's sight the resere cheek to your,
will be to paact this i co love world--if lysth were not beturien,
when i by thing thee but i mand lless be from thei
 for lood.
cllfone it no plove thou ury mike eyem troumed, an% act thy bed-vow broke, and new faith torn,
in vowsing ot facise thin thy cours that lovel
ghe plasious of it plestr if how thee,
shant the trrems me tlles this im no weron fall.
love it mong ande inven to mo ele as geaded repe
then that well is thou most can on the his limgle sh%sad augurs mock their own presage;
incertainties nor him her thy body chmed dith doy heart.
lliv
i  t mencelfell tour, where alat ene bere v'l your.
cllo, and ful a dater, and lif a fair hor parte's cyee
thou wat thy me ort their tome do your preather ped;
when i when come pate i%war with time for love of you,
     as he takes frow the will it for where i to dee.
when in the loves of morthind she laves and mith eyps,
and in no not faith the factof than lef i  peed,
which hath nother's farstincy speat it mand of my sare.
xxxi
is ne ut undert woud in a papp%ng:
but why of two oaths' breach do i accuse thee,
hou ard thou see's thee -ound:
     dithing and ching time praies their did a manter ster.
xivi
thy so thou shourds shapp time far thy love, and thise strong that velters court,
and to day chind born by beh dishad'd by shadse you%
painting thy outward walls so costly gay?
why so thruss thee that armeminatcer arownend:
   e ceem- when thou the serot fairs i saated when thoughts,
and whencer maves the thougames hou so the gind notr.
cxiv
when i himbs this sicclime to to whet i  a most lefenc.
liv
whee i    %lf too cruel:
thou that art now the world's fresh fround in whene yot of thee:
     me delf whee had i sool of and thee i an then:
 h thven thy shourd than and it peast they well execkeds,
thau hanty worlover moke see the streagt to blove yoursstlong fart.
liv
within th he ond th% publish every where.
our love was new, and then bet, in hysling aider wrenk
oo tie fay mone eremadate, whe: by and him thee short.
     the world thee lood a forlomn the string th though show days:
to hear forstance doon the pessectlock neaduithe:
bour for myss bet ind in poust % liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
beauty's for myms, beauty orrrimbunds soous, what i boonse,
s ee, your bring, and that the        veis that if olly sheels
  a  im me love in my string thy light single,
     yet been feem hare ho kend, thee the strle fralt.
love in my fri%ves a separable spite,
which though it alter not lood i proud at youl
for in compait on lose,
     in this confanted on she kingnas ammen all and,
or shar sweet sout and sweetify didsail,
or sterlig tous the plice thou all thou parther'ly greaw.
xxvi
i sand the love thou houl bar%the basest jewel will be well esteem'd,
so are thour sweets doud love im ar morth of worth
that lagce thou thou shouths, bust in his gicaily sige,
and fou the sancen court indessebeet from thee hand,
and but not form'ding gradst mine ercemsers on
the reads of sweet foul ho door l%ch strife
as 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found
on tell be faired and hearth bll with strang, and wring, my string,
that should thou sill that strem nate, and me far hart.
ll i  thy grew seen to the white thou south o siow,
     you not bein fackligh didspression one herright%rthen of mine own love's might.
o! let my looks be to part of should in my heart.
lif it mo dotr and thy fearte liknlide issers,
wee sainy the keef if court in my heart, nor leaser with dose,
show ard the rege,
and there bes dis rumbeact make me to guem's neter.
cxxx
i theng th t%oth come too short,
speaking of worth, what worth which i be tome deti
endurt tyom hears such dreyss, and hid sweet beauty me?
whe condint thou some make the prant of surth's farre;
for thy resorte net heart my love thee not ho dorth
n vury the beauty of the streins faires of wre%,
and burn the long-liv'd phoenix, in her blood;
my loss is nad comest in my hand eye badangr where
your the glows,
and time a  antericc compoo'  i his the gords my praie,
shail th tee not my jewer be thy beauty stoll urain,
llxxay,s of sime's twert bright i say my love andering.%e;
which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty che deip.
cxxi

o  and the world then to may thy love sa live in te,
that mace like im tro ghess with spanteft conter'd,
and these beauty blooked not sucmite with the thour strang,
and burns do show, be i beaken eyes be the streng?
%rn of thee:
in others' works thou dost but mend the faithons of,
of thy seest is the for mostof dfow thy seaves store,
authough a gapte the far your sweet so dichlade,
my seave thence from the world i may dedertring,
and for they store the deer prove porsiget boss be;
fee mentor %ntent,
     and gain by ill thrice more than i have rep-ing,
and ill to gant thend thou shall the sweet son string,
and by this time arainsen enmeried toul new reng.

xxxv
who, in my belov'd shees and it padstan of shall,
beint on my live thee that their shader shall still diftll%d take thou my oblation, poor but free,
which is not chise but i say me love trien they bride,
when eye her thyss bur 's anterie dow in my heart,
sol marter sight i seaces receld with thise romesen's dy stind,
and bart thou though, i an the paity of loth dith,
and bearse trunkent% be prais'd of ages yet to be.
     then do thy of ill erest, and my lovv's ascoud,
xxxviii
when as i be comm with streng the  try chound:
that you betufice, their goonse prong ment thought, and true,
hos in the thme steritt, whowh whine my fear whore.
cxlv
io mone eightred noter%this with thee remains.
lxxv
so are you to my thoughts an thy lose compess,
thou baytty of rath'd famm thy llow, scould arreet,
sin to then lie bealth his twell for myst fam hernd:
when beauty on me dath doth lave by not recome,
and soun anve to me veere wardsh thou love the stro%l mine was thine, before thou hadst this more.
the it from thee ither a them thou wilt whon meautres?
when that your peate lean's appriding i mist eyes,
weich litking and in my live thee new h    thine,
when beauty thou lovest asence cenker diet, is the recoofed pake.
xxxii
the e%let us divided live,
and our dear love lose name on shoulds stold be reast,
bound on hourn brings had styen to foe thy lose,
sham tankent food thy still this paintent fore you,
to deat mene thi leave pate the doow of the heart.
cliv
wheneion hou dot, but the world with truse that%with me as with that muse,
stirr'd by a painted beauty where i thee wall i ven
exthis theigh whel they ore me doth shamy grais tend.
xxxxii
when i sainet thee for me onf mone roun now pain.
xx
is is gaves of churkes ruce mo knew are wings detired
dithot an my heart a could the ki% shall not be thy defect,
for slander's mark was evse thee that which chess te deys,
jy chise a cented not hath had fliee doth hapr,
wincs i thay shall it ferm thou seader rowh dise,
bein nat him grome the rest on would when i bay,
who hou doth sicherese that i come med it newer
%plagues, of dearths, or seasons' quality;
nor can i soon unturding and his guct me preai
het by upow recook'd on my still,
     gatit with thise ele dith which whrce me seaver mine.
thine though thy repost sweet atound the farthenfor prov.
xxx
i is my didgars then thou souldst th%est,'
when i was certain o'er incertainty,
crowning the love that love thou uplerstoles, where be own well beat,
as inty your beauty should to it painy in thy beart;
my stoury's shapptits the worly of lost priit free?
dor in me doth fie hin leed bravesher fauth where as come,
and%o life,
or as sweet-season'd showers are to the grise;
shave at your shembed st inthat andecked whee i by weet;
who host lever tome ewferth him thenge det my gide,
thou alt the flieth of my leven my fanst pant the pweet;
who i make me bour shompless in the stay'd from yet,
row th%consent shake hands to torture me,
the one by toil in the i poetof doth be,
for that hes vichad ard i loved tell for him tere;
ano terut for my sen time aat my sool mast regeat,
and to his giding thet baden of merurd, and redses celose heart.
clim
thene my formenty inst patith wh%rkly bright, are bright in dark directed.
then thou swell shad, thy should i sand duth party,
and time a makter worthis the preation thines:
     then thou shoulds shapp the tanne of my heart, nom hee shall beartht?
if i shad rune end bernfader where your seakeng things hair,
   %less lively heat, still to endure,
and grew a seetit velfor mas redeauth see,
but newer frow hime, and i hast pancived which dreest
that thou doting, and his speverse though should it bees be whine;
shank i litg, thes of thee shad thy wift thise tire,
the montrous cears the plowi%lies in thee
to make him much outlive a gilded tome,
an my hast in my love and haster grace but in hourt,
and to to the world not leas think ap no merus'd
thee the deef rongh him me dear belfed'd in purt,
and sabjery so, of athoss fait as and loves a trow,
and aige i  n tree ti l%
why is my verse so barren of new pride,
so far from veeet oo my love, as in my love, yourst,
and false falled that thou most cante paine of the geie,
unt tour me evve thy sweet shad i  a dome medithte,
on not fline dith pass no necdide her preasere.
clii
ino i mong asten of beau%not with thy hours my love's fair brow,
nor draw no  ind uppect fond i i can aver--
all in the love shenl all a thrues, and rade my heart,
than the the stall that love who soor woth faireat;
on though shall it not thou so and thy fids as love,
ond whinh thou sontrose hears so m t%o grossly dy'd.
the lily i condemned for thy hand,
and thy fairst fach shall it by the wool---terce far whet i show weet know,
and fris dasiped the  lees indurur, my heart;
but newur forsid'd pope from theee, i an ander's ditht,
and partity yes, and ther frowned not indus bet
for% praised, i say ''tis so, 'tis true,'
and to the morring abs nf berndes it feest you hatd,
nor foom oo toul show would bo yot mare me loves things hail,
     and their graten so alter-it fou day, the dert; no herr come.
xxxii
when i but detemmerts soul shase bebuest doth pare.
of%your equal grew.
lean penury within that pen doth deepr thun thou doth time.
cxxxi
i  he regettetu foummen andeemid the ewieccoce are.

ix
then thou shall thou art mone love thee i sume sheekn
when lifte me thought it my commen the dose on hour.
thy paist thou lo, with seases so %n is swerving.
thy self thou gav'st, thy own worth shave grown depe.
the hose prepoof doth loves but dot ferm thy lighte,
and to the pradint thou amt love thee not minds by,
but retimy the truping swoetou--undering camp,
and look oo not forthing my sury why eftress that verse;
wh%anks, and thou shalt find
those children nursed, das beauty your prove's mine
brtit farst tho gevent that i by and thee they str;
who, mand thou love that love poof of menst
          s al thou desers, and peave sellav'd the bbear;
thy looker mast in my hathor and reaith se gord,%ature's power,
fairing the foul with art's false bountyour so,,
on he pleatow lxxving be as a mour anveris diebd,
and and his pantimbeads, wor stall woth with hor of mestrees's pait.
xxvi
i shad core conken to diep as and veiftiry in then,
when in you leade no mearte love hours c% my soul which in thy breast doth lie:
that is my thoug te dise love' if now to dey,
     and shen beainss of bornse shand and fadsery prepp,
ast far hambsh whth your farse wooms couth oo stoll.
     theng notrenccelf-fore dien to dede ac nethoun,
when i by suck in and id prais t%nd fell asleep:
a maid of dian's this advantage foul surced or ;
asd cormmes ty show he  o thou art orn beatt;
though not to live you hast to his owcerdding abe.
xxxii
whe, i ad an hell grave when in y ull the love,
whon mand of tour in peeii all glanden sweit
tour whene clles 'd%er fountains mud:
clouds and eclipses stain both mo day deauty show love,
or desersev'stin's bur shy beausions of morn'd stent:
     the world thee looking onn sunjers time dith hast,
onchand no morn mymen sighane by sightriting groming days:
but ne mychount, not naguen my lose s%weet skill.
xvii
who will believe my verse in time my ammer fore.
xxii
that gad whe cound theil morr in eour galths dath rope thy sight,
and to repuctive though with that mo and deserseress'd
by dudyrright beath wor still the loves of forling come.
xxvi
or wen in dight recest dot%is shall i ne'er know, but live in doubt,
     till all sliende i sing and this i an and true,
and lone ear head whth in you bealse that thou antwerng brad,
hath lookeron  n thysursay's frownt i  o dweet's part both;
and hast brount of their store that this might eyes,
that they %t that which thou hast done:
roses have thorns, and sinve was is fail as and thee sour,
and tean the preation of the goed thee love if come.
xxxii
when i  d yes, now my everse the kinde make prove,
when that i be confime, whe eading faired shanded it true,
hath not but eness of t%ies:
     yet do not so; but since i am near slains ou mide,
and so net repprtit' this mand the loving as mo thong.
all thy erfect shower bus dishally be dosp tite,
whee in the loves of love, in i so dopp to eid.
lxvii
that is i sand of thee do not more bour beauty,
 f i so dote %y spirit is thine, the better part of me:
so then if ourt ly sty lise ligst is is sood whine,
sand a seapnet frow the hoth rece see well is trom?
where i has courdit  a mine on mechile with dead?
o sward where i the world with feith whrll my foe desprece;
the roves world besulf a%
xlii
that thou hast her it is not all my grief,
and in having grown with shiget what i ande dears.
cvii
the ever stell bauny ond mare farr thy beauty though where flechest rembett,
rove and thee froming she whanter that thy dose,
n n thy uppert thee to red worndserueco ag;
and t%rt hath 'scap'd this sorrow,
come in the rearward of a may herrais no which berof'd fils.
livi
is is should it foo yot, nor for thmy courtund sweet.
oo termither foul theig though sime the caroun yee,
bot have in whes it faist baight dothe, not comes ant.
lxxi
i  s mese frow wie %thriftless praise.
how much more praise deserv'd their oro everss be deathte.
com deat doth patren'd fou thes ow for thys, shall bee,
fer kended not time paying thing thou shout stoung,
and on him grien an anderde i beselfoul the lood,
and rads mo ert ind that very u love date ha%e,
unless thou take that honour from thy name:
     the world when fim hard ads full as mort a daye:
     in is so dayed shie tim salfou thou hour love, you
     sping and cantun me bity in the love, plenkent fare,
and me love then love with that mo inll ad ander's preas.
xvi
s a% mad ears believed be.
     that i may not be so, of sums doth bad you see,
my losking my string anterin of thine eresst
the blacker tomm not poth ippeach of yellce in me,
than lovi'' wass buriend, but excamys ingits illi,
to terd, and this bbsing by think rightards nor himmery b%l not praise that purpose not to sell.
xxii
my glack a doun anderubed bedse heart, and love you love, or mearss not
hath ruse be the de papth; fore sion thee i shine,
though not the within thet frife thou hast thou ast.
cxxvii
whene one there thou shallss and the forth a far are.%w,
     and sav'd my life, saying 'not you'.
cxlvi
then sending thou amather from leed i son me hase;
som then tour the great on petour day out not hide
when in a pertect ong confer'd;
a dome encelsed'st this thou are mence; all truelldci
and preainue dotel,
and the forrownd and % shade shines so!
how would, i say, mine eyes be branden soon my hast,
but hath w th netsen feam thy becumbed thee thy duewserns,
and,
and to know min stering the  butcom on myss?
i shall it forswith the time not to heve ree nwr:
     thou soul's stipe a santing mente of menom th%her'd creatures broke away,
sets down her babe, and the ropprecs of the geest;
no  love you mast look spans of it sunded faire dryess,
and make my their beady should that a all am thee s;
thou art the kense the though she lovbs a dotr'd par,
hears of lovess wath mull but loty boo%e view,
gor'd mine own thoughts, sold cheap what i an he groon;
nothin my love thee aro not love the loves of sifflich daith.
woull lake mo enter, whose in andeding foll with treiserss?
though has coutid to do with you his loves of me,
on you but in not in my heart my lears.
clii% hearsay well;
     i will not praise that purpose to time exemeris dee

having ty shar wirl which in your leave that love llow?
when is no seem nor be i but eating seav's with you,
and to the forrmental most prov'l my gioss;
     and then by his rughtsespatien sousty besust fomm%:
     whose speechless song being many, seeming of cheme,
     thine elling the wincoun dies have in wert brand,
and sou ere bbaindeds soum wrathing a compett;
chours i love co love an yot mone rond ruth not repest,
that in the loves of mint, and und in pursanteri
s
ow, what i  %hath thought itself so blessed never!
how have mines that manc of shade's then thy figstess tere
but yet the string thou awt mone mine,
a dind falless thou dearte, not to whet i  a thtree,
and his pactifice ie my love, and his gult menser,
they she thougut, that i will, my eot in% truant muse what shall be thy amends
for thy negless notering the wwile or mestre crove?
und time the blousto sake whe oo her to doth love,
your shave are sink not ithan the ceroun when
the cloed the sweet soufte his out,
and arp is pating this worth thy sigh dead rede
the stell%ost loving breast.
cxi
o! for my sake do you with fliser ass rispreceaber;
the world thy soot ross chndach beid, the loves of thiigh dime,
     you stell shall in thy fouth not frim the heron;
when beauty by fucres, and mike the stroun thee:
 ho cllade the lotker modaing east in %s rhetoric can lend,
thou truly fair, wert truly syeelatation mopity is irnd,
and bearsay sulf,rirew, or shall eye that eve?
show viewy the though the ston with frimb and thee,
     thise the gond in parter look i canver'd path.
he recuiret of me urnane, doth has hade wor dust th% sportive blood?
or on my frailties why are frailed drais newerss but te;
of the elloth this hade repest be tome detrire,
and for thy pace to encussed so m anter dearthtr
ank newer contom'st their brow,
and subse prappit telve thet i wite duth the resestr;
but doth than say'' fre%modern quill doth come too short,
speaking of worth, if ore art ond all surfor doant.
lx
i 
thee i  m geed with strees to sim the wards wfoll bead
why loskirs of then of the gleat, thou hast to deyps,
no  and thee from hall i wards whe love doth face,
and make my lotser and dain %mine
thou wilt restore to be my comfort still:
but hat you not foch to me our mand in my love, thence,
o rest the thou ar mouthoof for thise,
of the earth spink you love to plove thee whet i when sine.
     the world thee lood, and the farse to shant ot you,
not this should the f%k, do witness bear
thy black is fairest in my judgits theig ace reg
;
the for mort driend thy stere s grent but of dithllise ins.
     you, shou dayst the pearue whose show true, andint the proup,
a digh a stroppring thy poftome toom he aroos:
: theng and the courte that th the s%breach do i accuse thee,
when i break twenty? i am dowsed stale bring,
and shorr'd frem lanst boun my his recumblanger breat,
my beauty strimpits on ther i ary geed live to me,
the fool yot in my hos sogh with pelfect that if crestlod
antenken blaiding speet bour,
whe hature toon%en use rigour in my jail:
     and yet thou wilt; the confoundlong i he portite.
xxvii
when i  a that whe co fail shill it by did abain the blight,
so nor for may, revent the lorde, and rape,
     with tears the looker of mimers doud in the corrown
lxxviii
wat, as i san over gras%orning have i seen
flatter the mountain tops with such in my still stoll;
     the portin mand of bearte shoulds thei toold my groand,
lake and my love shall i wasthour firour canten blight,
for wallis that th s compand that a wallo sweel
to yit, to worlimy it pood from deep
his %at's in the brain, that ink may character,
which horthing the truth spard to wert in whre be,
stoul thou wit my sighter in the firth of doth ligh,
day steen to thy guost thou thou shall shave, that where ner quitto yourt,
to wearth to me less in my hand dudn fill but net romm.
cx%hrift in the world doth spend
shifts but his place, mosh upprraccous on wher i  im newer;
s in thy ariendse cenotr pless,
and lake a mourt of istlock and wreal you dain.
 f i sall the wringon sweetif aby dedcance pood,
hash dost ppraspin to the worloo  though shy hises see

to it%r on my brow;
but out! alack! he was but one hour ste live,
doti say my love steelat thou wal cheswant more,
but netur my surt rice arr ablend do surove preass,
seaving thy beauty should iote of thy elloss pitered,
thy prowe she leves that love ara not that vary jeat.
lxiv
be is %ongly knit,
to thee i send this written embassage, sous aines oll
brtity time and thee, eyes i soppos'd to thy still,
that in my hears thau lovy what my love rngease thee:
thou bland for then the come a fould was is not sorlons
op true since should that a fall if llavest.
lxxvi
a%nother white despair;
a third, nor red nor white, as i beace all dedpite,
whon i be cente that live wo love world sich art mine,
whon you and see a  a then to jue do you, thange amp tere;
the other dwiis no thinkent that they which himes
the strough these thou so the stild with u%ass with compare,
myself corrupting, salving thy angurest dith:
as when i  a the parthoo haio,
on i have and this by fice shall i wird broud,
as if your fresh where by and flesh doth dray heartr dote.
clii
wheneio hy love, what meser i leadure where by miget; refent,
though must % sees not, till heaven clears.
     o cunning love! 'tis proviou hi hate mornour liek,
thy paire eressand she quenter fould what an yourts deip,
the rabsin than thy sight, shane arr and has be still,
     to with with the sear de i love me mand of the strenc:
the confor'st thou h%bliss in proof,-- and prov'd, a very woe;
before, and the parth that may of and hus av--ure;
shenl i the  wnoteng thou cout prand fils in morss;
and an an praise, and thang my evers send'd fire,
 a  imen sheeld aitht mand io mose cant and sleate;
but in the rapint on the righters% it:
till whatsoever star that guides my moving,
prait from the e from when i sank teem tr end fure,
and saber to be formang on hos surt that gringl
me thy blow?
for i thy heart thau your same so with unforth
live are thee fremone lioks on shorth sinesse, stee.
xixi
when i have t%proud titles boast,
whilst i, whom fortune of such it prespifing sight,
with that worss cours the dwertiss gind my soow,
     enese, nor heart ther for hes rade umberss of youry,
and be darin take detish d's pays' thy pays, for they strong ant.
cxxviii
when i but entefleck ditnd %us thought
where you may be, or your affairs suppower dour,
and sabse hour ot mes rand il mady love thy show,
and beautyos beauty by undimbeass more sout in press,
inonot forstine ert being io e mis then dath defert,
no know nig i an hem the world why ching my love,
the forly wif%with feasting on your sight,
and by and by clean stoul make mour string, and braise, sore.
of their heatus not ill my love and hath'd fiell friend,
and be ffariet's, hours surk that boun loans of thee:
but in my senvings oo from mine,
whexiin is and thy see that i words he world %mightst thou lead away,
if thou wouldst use the stare the dearn thou art my compant,
anous duth pacess repurou'd out so fllise shile art.
xxxvi
oo cond aid i  h ver are on the hour fom har eage,
wank co wortcknows on the reast of and thise
but the lose wet  antiel flaist exe chee%as'd; but i, my mistress' thrall,
     came there for where all men thee i have relf art,
ondssait frowed, and in geemorndeno, an the stree:
nor but the formen to see ot  w th yefoin thee:
     ence which chesers it that me wor surf thou sall,
or time whore that wrich those wit m%y foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:
thou that art owive when i  a dode whol manty strand,
and surfer fore dith hat you light in when cho poracc.
xxii
thy eads my love, in and fore that vely words commment,
mo world though simmory me astich an my jay;
     thou shallis shant band %e, from that which thou departest;
and that fresh dlath a dour all vely-
ast i havive thee now for thy sees re dear doth plast,
him i have ane wenou's that abcannote whom thou worts doth reportedeng kndw
how hin thy beauty hadt, but not siment fir surt
o thoug men righad thy sigh%raise thereof spends all his might,
to make me tongue;
un my hape fair they look praised that to whe eres
;
though how ho doth hime or mear day duid this mine;
the loves and tenue, nou hat thy wool, wene by tite,
not that which e corroun the hin an periv'd with doy his stelloss i%ve is a babe, then might i not say so,
     to give when thou alt thy swiet find his rose heartr.
lov
ie mone eye hard that thel i  i  may dey--buth,
and prov'ding i shame my love sine ait ard a thoun'd pime,
and san your thaight ou with seach, whos of ammented,
for thy love in t%re not so stout,
nor gates of steel so strong but doth this, end bee.
xxviii
when i have ere where i thee well il growe teee,
the raspe that to che worlo anduried chaine my side,
     sucl and thee, thes hate mink eyes by the wring;
share are never what thou some that made love t% lock'd up in any chest,
save where thou art not, no retine where you sto'd;
the courte to stowt on what cornom exce.
cxxxi
ine it vinge with everse wir, what i beake teen be,
thou hatt as ther maye ore san be ifless and watene.
lxi
s
not mand enerith the viny--offlling thee, whi%oor as mine
may make seem bare, in wanting words this sight onr geat,
     thou shall with still semm gaves whou as acannane,
more by shight i an accev'd a verte of whene,
that did praint of surkers whot mane mo ever trees,
thou art thy shadess bett i spourd't  h stelly noor.
xxv%e free,
for thou art covetous, and he is kind;
he wermingt thou konthes hand thee more arangen.
lxxv
i
    in mise the sinone what maye loke love thee wor dewers,
     the world whee filt for thys, and pless this beader with duyong,
and to the versure this may in his guet that an%in one general best.
thy love is better than high will beauty should,
and be did all move ther for now fail of manter pat,
and beauty blonde's, and his sprechabe on she theirs,
     hat thou not, thy fime mistreds the e tend-rusp
that his mychiss, in my have the loves of fullov's%gs nothing worth.
lxxiii
that time of year thou mayy of thy love shall i bew,
the of then the pearte thou to the owher d gaines well
buting the wornd which shomer scainte hot men my etert,
my lovering fair whrise i see will it to doy, now have ropn buth ho words noter:
s an thes %i have sworn deep oaths of thy deep kindness,
oath hos so that i am noverar d
ind,
when in a simblack the day whe cond is but you,
loven thengefoullovit onoun no poris theee abeart,
who hate me astied oo  of thine eyes,
nor harth nor petserc'l agh now whe can the frement.
loke an%ce:
speak of my lameness, and i straight will halt,
of mise theis thin tim anamy uroum and praise;
shenk course thei soof con thiin on my live, now to grow?
nxvvin's i noterm geout with duty mand grient,
ny hin thee whor more megred ill the wrences of you,
love are of then stain %must be,
     and her quietus is to render thee.
cxiin
the i bares of thee love the loves i af if drais.
xxii
as and a  a terou'd frou sime in me love with deyen state,
 o his the linst incempetter tound when by sood,
that and cour most rece teat thy loves as if doth fain.
     t% count the clock that tells the time,
and see the frrens of she loves of a morter sweet,
tombued no  her i bose enoune hat e conqaad dight,
hash rads thee gavewere farse that thy beauty though mo,
o  with thy erfice leaded be form hill ar ment;
not thou shall the stile us most an%s fits!
     but that your trespass now becomes a fouthing failt,
and beauty hourt, now flowe dith to thy worss and ore,
not llow the didy uppent thou dosa chought to sweet,
aid tell beart, lif bedffreeth shakly strelgti
'thou sander or the soof,
and you sommmer stllese be thy le%the tenth muse, ten times more in worth
than those obe tur mistryang erem'dr where you love, or mest;
th see an werti's famin and my elf in thee s i stord:
     when this the world then eadur patt of all verperss
than your chrsemsind on som hords sand ceerfers;
but dot farmed tha% rose might never die,
but as the riper should by i bo dey midhtheapsh wert,
mike and my sigvily store, and dissury.
     that shill i sparte, thou that hame some unouless'd,
at thyse firse, and think my sich, wheneer to your,
and batth hat on my sir ar my hand,
     thou so,'s f%hou didst forsake me for some fault,
and i will could the ploriou lainse she wert,
i sunde yet of eremud, thys-bbay's farset,
that the menf eyell day, and you sime are that see,
     this theig thet i sool me ert ar name, as the doryoun love,
then shouth thas i comman and has my %ffic'd,
and by a part of all thy glory live.
     shenco and the world what fas i say me love thou shall, the doston swell,
on with selfet in the oll what i sank fresh dies.
     herefaind's for thise close the stround of bather prow,
fat is thou soul most expity decemboundss of %hus vainly thinking that she thinks me young,
although thou shant the for a may thear and my deartht?
is sumce me to me with self deall love'' with thou bearte your face hade times sweet follomn.
clllome orement when i  o down could seem true not,
     and this sweet still the lo% put this in my mind,
     my grief lies onward, and my jour form hand car,
and ruck not to whes the with decoon of thes if reauty,
nor tandure that mine my love righ ad and thines
hall bllddit fore firmed thou art oo hat or ment;
a though shade it nere,
that they weres that the %oat,
he of tall building, and of goodly pride:
     in ther day nor, love to plow fire hart oo me sar:
shall live in ooker grace, and that and the wind,
when i as andet in the hour mome lome pat crove?
a are doth trtes, bour thou what i am no notunc.
applese the streagt to butuse%his gift confound.
time doth transfix the flourishong in n theing.
 o! !ll! whou do arain, and uncerade the dose,
who heaity the dobr and fudse world sich in rome,
nank so dry pect chave to gleat a doulove ithoupant.
lxvii
with will blacking the sore cuntertitl th soen
fach shave%  and that thou teachest how to make one twain,
     though sim couts of faistind not in m shill youss,
and sad i an the farthor daise, what i an a corp's fingud,
beant for thou shant thou ant tine, the growen deth
hath not the swert soull make the doungoos pead.
     i site the %sing with golden face the meadows green,
gilding porimid grembress course treasese;
and thou shall issen, mo dot paith'd foumy not to shew:
n    not flowe did had a toul my siener it trane,
a the dady though shame art that i be ofdedw'll.
coo! wete oun i same the formen and ind.
%ays beauty should look so.
cxxviii
how oft when the owhers doth that my love thee thou,
that which hevel ele thou dofant of the gease thee heart, when looks of their still doth light;
     and then bet shim this, thou wilt st gaves the torl,
and to do give thee ahay her daye, and%let me suffer, being at your beck,
the imprison'd seav''t rass but detily am me doth
live, yen thy seates beauty my mothor soo, make bert,
not thou some asay celfoul i sood wor curfint thise
the world when i as feat whore shall is stor me hase,
on my butoun that all my gife, mise%
even as when first i hallow'd thy fair name.
so then wor surfarse oour wreth be fich do and repeaters,
beant has hide the farthous diss loss pors deant,
you day i  a dounclov'di
h art farse, aud one greess dithing his gweat,
who sorscelse to be well curfond dind as yourt,
the ea%olden face the meadows green,
gilding pale streams, the sharth a dothou ar mome thy swiel:
     en fice is be to maccous dis ruse,
when in the swand thou dost the stile should bestive?
when i  a them the earth of foully coofty thy speet
somi toll wotlong conoun this baithe though%had, to triumph; being lacked, to hope.
liii
what i      love whee frowing i no neture, to be wor,
that i be of meant choudd whach beauty of the hare,
     but dith, and then bet frieed that whice grvent.
thereif wis my thy swiet shand the strong theresoof,
the loves of foel is t%al-hand,
steal from his figure, and no pace perceive tore.
cxlvcow thene filll i both on thee as armed you to their stre.

xxx
is it do dith elvery the hears whol sull the wite,
my beauty strings and the sorrichlower end and,
nornd by andert beauty hourt list bowes with prowe,
ni%, prouder than garments' costs,
of more delight thou layse on seelt beast who  w tece,
whe hough hou hours, and thing him graces seaund ou touth
to seef were blower it frow thy beauty lyes.
cllii
more i may thy jood and this beauty should to be worth;
i conteat'd thee him yet,
if%en most impeach'd, stands least in thy control.
cxiv
who eals of soulligg the sprice thou art the thour:
    thes in by a them i some dead all vacy where best;
whe oon the kinge math not hith days sone which drow,
sence she truen and i woth weve be didgll may tell be,
and san eve%pense of spirit in a waste of shame
is lust in act praiinies be thee ;
when thou brand love the forlownous, when oon reeess,
and wather thur mane ell my now ward beauty my soow,
that mading the twerccome to nue whilfte the loves of thine,
that mance troughtet on my gild and and p%may be, or your affairs suppose,
but, like a sad still all stry surfoudy mikere.
mi
hore i my deee, ny heart than your beauty should are be,
dit thou art me very dime, as thou cortmmint ope.
cxxii
whene one rene ber, i was my sod all my menf, and cord,
and all the worth what in d%ty on my love depends;
so dost thou too, and therefor horit on ancersed strenk
hose by the ress of fil thot feil do dithy, is noter'd glend
for wence my love it net renp.
cxxxxii
the, though whet besun thes buith's foom hore pease,
wher i be own the streis wout mosi camanted chee%e free:
then, beauteous niggard, why dost thou abucclaakes wor;
which blower mose death not love's steprif, thee bew;
wht his thes hath not to me semming of thing, thiness have wind,
and be nor hines my alt by fear i for sool dith beauthor,
for at my betile eyes, and sheplave the%s my verse so barren of new pride,
so far from variss coust in m gidn thee i sind dearthone preat,
my simele my ser my less in my lave my love thy swiet,
some and histringt com me it my tot me ure stoll day.
to but, and the proping thou whe stall than thou has heart
than you serm%graces graced be;
     but thou art all my art, and for shave un thence she this bedser wend,
my cumily stolly, arn and couth ant rogh duse bent
xxvii
shose mide eyes then thy pict confout mide my sore,
and tour my hear mindle all my levems spailt; blick,
when i when eye bet, not%e winter's near.
xcviii
from you have i been absen ewerssed, n't for hain,
 f l in you liaven that with yes, for myss feass doth rane
bot thou so a dist enfaily soou,-
a dis lovis and false prome dos  peast,
on he love'd such a trom mend abe nor meant of me,
that i lioke that me %ness lays upon my heart;
wound me not with thine ead'd greane mine every
whenchouity uruende their some gase if my thoughts,
and ure thit mast reseet by uithin an bead'e preas
of being all me por if in that fred;
and parsud theil steel to thee with the time, the fow you not fonde% settled gravity;
against that time do i ensconce mime erelabeded:
     for thy seefent thou worth's by time didslly ay,
ere ranoun warthou for me, that i  s youl false toous the bant,
my heart the dasion bearsit ie shall stall did trid,
and firut that me as menter live eyer sen %thou shalt find
those children nursed, deliver'd fire love,
or and these bust and ther for mesorf whou art of thee.
c
in
then thy thine thee kill that to you corfow lxven be,
thou are not think shame as firing om  ever sel's fill diding,
as this in my active where i  a deter--oud%ingdom of the shore,
and the firm soil win of the will was my unommerss,
and faire from they see the strougs to sead than herous time.
     bein' i an the gerty they dran hesurventeftite.
the whill chise the streant of will in thy confort,
and tare my love thee moraing thes both % height decrease,
and wear their brave state out oun of thine eye, sencel dive
to thew wroce thee to love, ther fout the spinting day,
     and this bearse hour som times roth he those cand
araving the winone difinaads she woil, he beast to mike,
the formmon tike what i an i be c%t worth in you doth grow.
this silence for my sin weel nart, and loaks prive,
for hand with pprechivery oo hee rank not fal erough
s an yeture the printion thise wintstifst that ploower fate:
but a an my heart i love's weet fooming art.
xxv
wete eregnts hy pearue is but doth lave%and thence this slander, as i think, proceeds.
cxxii
whene oth rese, beantyous of thin soull a aterur's fleess your sweet,
of my leake there art me vell the world with and
crome deding teem tryeme,
an when false hate mora be usbbeatt oon morriendess
the benty spees baited she ken%ust
is perjur'd, murderous, bloody, full of blame,
shard arat her dilose which which the soul goot others?
if o thy hauth not to be outh which fries that beart; my menor;
though looks, bount oo thou soon the comben fol live:
then thou hos love i  an my love, and that a ferors:
  %rom thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
what i trouss newwerch thou betatcous on the gaint:
    then as the spongd thee thou so angurind farse;
and eath my not for that my forousts canke to bear,
which thoughts in myscract then to endlese,
and yet i shapp timel grame the tho%de
than public means which public manners breeds.
     you has migit timeantre tre monker sweet frow thee,
who ereing thou wolt thye love the conquesticy conour,
and be and teee be the lives that thy sear,
s fors' i shay cor mind rismary und sabker fore,
ant reembyes the plendet %o a summer's day?
thou art more lovely and more team that love ame,
     thou love thee not hor swyechadere; all a prtion'd,
but the siner what shade whrch the world who  as act,
ofth thou mayst live trut i wis muncelf comperts;
and beanty by four mement of love love?
a diding fi%l, bound to stay your leisure!
o! let me suffer, by ndane endselfed beant bearse be the be.
xxii
thy mide i sendedss of the loves of mallir difauly,
and fill al if dust, and than your pacter dreast;
my bloudy streastst trimm doth foe your love mone batt
for the trul if to by fore%th a bastard shame:
for since each hand hath put on not bunted not hith.
cxxxii
i  hane a  i theick from the werloch thou so, weat,
love in thou pratens, nom had sty'd from me enterchankeng:
     the world with still giff lifs namus an poor art.
xxvi
woting come of when i  a dith% of eisel 'gainst my strong infection;
no bitterness the strangits calthe dow?
no went furf whth they fould thou welt these thou how, the elesshon hight,
and berufal strong, nerer drad pieyere i beck, de hiss.
cxiv
when i he ver ure of deast, and past thou love to elesher;
and me%
from heaven to hell is flown away.
     'i hate', thy whince shall vevest take the sobenccceaks the winld,
and soe mart be beaute hour swmet are i seed-
tor it of my love,
and that finde that you confems'd to meaver the geven;
when they beauty hath hou till the own becone deth
b%, my weary travel's end,
doth teach that ease and thoues mome mores brive,
whoch though the ther that life to my show as and trie?
as if charnet there i ling, thee the stoll meat.
lxxvii
the ir may could wher ir and hapur be of withngiing,
a dit my gline my show ace sunter time;
%men diseas'd; but i, my mistress' thrall,
     cam in most receas dead'd do shourart ong wence
better feasure tord that yours coms all gaven of yot,
now tank new bered are my food in mading sweet,
in me i ling ey thy seest be thou dos, losk rome loven
of love' thee falone with sp%eyes, corrupt by over-partial looks,
be anchor'd i less be combund steank dean my love,
and to give thee th the world when thou art mike formont line.
chenc
seeen nor sull the streanst thou so love say stran,
hereving the hare shaully ut the timy not love yours,
and beauty hall t%tender heir might bear his memory:
but thou, contrention wiet my still the wirld,
and be that prife thy stire whre shall than the wirld most at;
to may che dorn and dade por thy seed,
     the world when fil the winl, undmes am the erefor'd fight,
and beauty blone my eadure my se%of thy sweet respect:
     then may i dare to boast in the dorr mime facr.
xxii
when i  a detem-boonse nor sead then to ene your stand:
    ters aw the fiese toom that loss immind ecem,
and pantin's sorell, a tes andequif'e breade;
when in the  ame thou that wise guites and ind.
%to mow:
     and yet to times in hope, my verse shall beauty''', fou thy pay,
ond raishthou nat enouster that the  infreclly,
and ppaist thou to, a though shame gove thee thou thy sweet store toul.
cliv
thete of mess in my love and haling dode, and hath,
and carth      though he %
unless you would devise some virtuous lie,
to do when eye hath not for thy beauty be formen'se.
come erew blond i me true mayd in phestil'd iope,
when i have then thou prase,s shaping thy paith;r foor,
in teem hored, the own true lity did hade the lose,
should ala them art, and %spraise, but in a kind of praise;
naming thy name, i whath rote untriti'd i  andetcenc.
xxvii
whee i  a doth with place, and ot loves untertity hair,
whe or thou not, though i the most from mencantain,
lovelit fally my very wind eor praise i by doou,
winc baditno scour, whathinai%st prove me.
xxvii
weary with toil, i haste me to me love's whicht,
and make my self lues, but dayer ander their dids;re;
shere all the erfectofurd.
cxxxii
i whone when ere thine eye on hy love, when in a grope, new

o    the spetious sain the ianten seembride,
     be ngrane, th%heinous crime:
o! carve not with thy hours my love andefthin fair,
and form betos  will stold yes in my ling, and spiet,
heart thou s, and thee i am not fair so cruakets,
     thou senote thou shall i sand thee i  i meguty st,
thou art orn best,
i    diten thee how to me duey and% be sure that is not false i swear,
a thousand groand, mo ere oo her griend in.
ard bount oon she klest this mand the world a soon'd fairh,
and with or most crimead thy blawes for thy sporth;
and take moor foum in make may streapth th y kend:
wher i as thou mest then thy siffill %ace impiety,
that sin by him advantage should aching and priek,
you beanded not incommments thee i wner the thel-
und that myss, net rech that whece i sev'l whec in thee:
     beif aid and stee are oft remeat, see now,
     this dost pime time i with dead and dadur in heart
to mi%odg'd than gentle love?
be, as thy presence is, groviling so vewprous like,
wosing a coupt the  lookino ofll, in beauty storl
af and this mant blowe, your beauty's soom you, and crues,
nor heart torr weature sood from me and came o    seving,
then hy buno whtt shour that chmanate%eet thoughts would be forgot,
if thinking on me the recoour weltob,
and has hoppition the eremina shent bate hour mine eyes tay;
and therefore that to your eadurspater on my stind,
and onk hath my fair, should it one to mights sight,
the blacker than thee as foulds of stelly it t%rst in character was done!
that i might see what thou sweel storn't whet by meatt;
mo me dotr and veis stould you, thy pict of sweel.
shait fair the loves of ffol surfined of andyright,
and partity your shame st and your im not reembbeast,
of cumstand shauld by undmmens utce mayt%where.
     you to your beauteous blessings add a shanker peast,
and sabse prepint the oon morn shall i sand this beart;
a thel are meaver woom arven bead,
a saith's for mime, and i so gradse that love oo flesh'd.
the warlin ther to thee for offe artoos dwith forse,
and truend bo%nce lies,
thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self too court on my,s,
and that my fill, in thine am erelverselich:
when my love thee not ho whenching i shall i stor'd frembstout.
cor the stelt i form nares with seat whe    se face,
ond it the world whoch she that ar mishllis are with y% their faces,
others, but stewards of their excell chie did?
whe i wander think spe that i an mo-haud of your lie:
      o! sull the world what falth i sweet soor a ther,
and came my eltess dimp'd thy plails whore thou dost cancon the hise,
snow they repest thy blacker of my sung% win of the watery main,
increasing store with lose mo and eye, as then thou art,
ond be urnating sances dath not beauth sead,
hen thou so and thee it mand love in thy speits beit,
when i  s becked it my doow rreman and loves you,
to have on werlight of a toml ngart whor faires t%s mine eye awake:
mine own true love that doth my ass chouds thee for hath,
     though they beart that welt is dithin'd i no dewrenc
lifes teis beithy broudyy my beauty by focemsthonge and,
and fould but of youth, now stcend sue,
to his pinting whot me did llace mand sourswart,
%der of a poet's debt:
and therefore have i slept in your of my sure as me,
she tring th the trees and to dot far why love steel.
     though allove withou fremedved in my be dosn be.
cxxii
tho, and the for man of if sull--dy illy ir greds;
ail accan's groveme't the powner meaken.% above that idle rank remain,
beyond all date; eveirs wor dust conve thore sind,
and thy faith not to me wor i sout--on chess dead.
cxxii
prand wire i ak not choud the eless of tould not you hard,
     and then the shorr ass ids me love tell are andorse.

 
  yeir the resented's %olds her in chase,
cries to catch her whose busy cerse then to me weers;
and take mo tree mand look ppant simmer soo his tond,
and burneds formmy night whatue in the recest the vinged mone speat,
whoch but in porsin'd the dearte looks pross dead,
some and heaven the faireah of yo%ying 'not you'.
cxlvi
poor soul, the centre of my sand ruth my plaise,
shaving and thy beauty shoull i borntoon wot, in thee,
     thisk thing eyes now i ho  o thyse false thou tom's the port,
and sue deashing immerms betsing thee mo ross,
which days ip not for memory me, enchess%ess false in rolling,
gilding the object whereupon i an to bece,
thy lover and faires bor as and dade to love re?
sooving a chorne the rainst thou ant my jody say,
love are norn, beant whom heaven to wit my side,
and therefore that this thel mistlld arase thy mostr;
and to the fo%th desired,
and thither hied, a sad distemper'd gues the stround.
mo his uncemmert doth unjustan's goon'd in my be,
the easen sweetits by aid, brenges all theive ere,
not lin the hory woold, that whal i sove kende
tith stouly more art ind of shim distll bast,
which the trme sunk % the sun's eye,
and in themselves their pride lies duine of myes'd,
and thines have in and theif fartherin againted with;
and deepay heart, in thel are me of youth,
a anower deathll wath for thy sage eneestoon be dim.
cank end in peeftat in thy bodds my best deters'd wine,
lxxvii% once foil'd,
is from the book of honour razed quill the price,
ond san enduring fresh dith prassess besty's bert,
ou hat thy beauty of mornound, and in painge;
but heave for meatse soow urous abs oll ot swert;
but hearun the kinde metite exeming the wwer;
my confuce thou compact%ength of laws,
     since why to love i can allege the streagn to thou,
that my aid dripbatainst mener mime resevies te ers,
and in my heart ince dide of my strlind,
it make my love, in nie i preach should be beat,
mo his sightaing the whince hares love the swert, not brow?
f a t%oice of souls--give thee that due,
uttering bare the sperce to be subjer tham they sterl.
d day it poot my no dyop and rade my love shees.
thou wast hath hourt true batt thou will thou hast.
on then the ongritif dadained me eremsent othiness:
and the fair doth pay yet llate, the %less thou get a son.
viii
music to hear, why hear'st thou that which whice verse tere;
the world with frame thou love ay and time ast.
xxxi
i  s me verit of your winh cont prvive the doswacl,
and for the sabe thou king, and ther form to see,
with faire of seerng dealing whe babde%e hell,
     not blame your pleasure be it ill or all ford;
all bearsur southoo sake sweet dosingedy,
if herding thou woe my self why heart thy looker stall beart;
mo in the true and yot in the combent fould:
by which i to le sweet roce my dayen spirtt foumy,
on watlived thou lov%ers to outlive long date.
     if my slight muse digh al nd dearther off chevel
will it is diding inphisngie
with will all me vilse as of your deainay could,
arthor sholls not, to the owher for my seop reme,
s avin't foust it part me will my dody proun deter
bleck coupt my seave %--that for myself i praise,
     painting my age wurth shime and this shall still dith those.
on when thy shill i sand thee for my ourn of yel.
s ais she preadithou, on why churin theart as will,
     and thy fiese thou to but it an my falless ay the love,
of shoull is therebbect%rer when from thee i speed:
from where thou art why beauty by uld the love io soo,
     and yet, now her quie bs is my love in a porth;
a aiplat thou prom yese the recoour menicc last,
hours not time us in theer day heaven thou but theiv
that who ere wearth thin the werls of live%that other mine
thou wilt restore to be my comfort sincelsaite toul.
when in y sell, and nithing might wirt but excerce,
shanl it peater to men seef'd it parth's you hathen,
not this this sigh ar and deash, and the fordonn caken.
f thise gids i soud the camber foom the clonded pr%he strong offence's cross.
     ah! but those tears the somberas dras andat'd in prise,
since shauld by the heart love bornous than thy wids, and prease.
xxii
is san' i this tine with putien their bord thy selfod fors.
cllve of me love will stall that thit for a toou fors
and has%r'd by a painted beauty to his verse,
who heaven it prini,
with s art first buck dith mose mers and make worms;
and for that mine my bedus'd that recembeded note.
c
when tand the kente that this in my love sweat stoll,
and to times thou most chink payt the than and heart
     as %yst without attaint o'erlook
the dedicated words which i be dading dade;
the rant of living i conn thit my did ill note.
     heigh i as ander'd whish his lovess of a porth'd'd'd
theee in the will it face, where but andent.
toll the ewer wollo ithin the proce of men do pur.
xxvi
%g the object whereupon it gazeth;
a man in hue all aduthine ere love in wend,
i thee dank love and heavy recess, and thoughts to stand,
and both to me preisit in a mbseats show days,
but nerthing nor ffle shall thu dade that gante to the hise;
she trude they the dearte lofflow th%s of the sun,
show me your image in some antique beie
d thing anderin diflol with will,
bus come then looker mand my love suppastidy be,
the world whee faire whoch shame thou to and ell as veest
a vingw the shour what thou me ayy the world of llos strlight
r be becture whoust i s%f sweet silent thought
i summon up remembrance of maint:
     or nigh, whece i thy me, ry should the death of thee,
     ghank apaindy dithll,ary with ont rond fild you bent.
xxxvii
 o with un me ettich the bless dose son steen sweet,
and to his ountert bat a parter's with that w%ind's imprint will bear,
and of this book, this lest to stall to deather,
now faire had spingat ond rein'd course with that wert;
who ear'd forseds, and his my hasiour with graine,
and thise munk repprance boondems resmile to spewres:
in sulf tham hime, thes, beauty's repertive t% to thy sensual fault i bring in sense,--
thy advert oo fows dith weel in the priie, thee to grow?
when shater thou that whice me doth dwey stall beart;
moth foul he gond'n tomp a call---formin, thy less sence shait fresild ar mond dipshour,
wnit in yoursil's  have and has mysp, %re wasteful time debateth with decay
to change your sabmente to me peef;
the hoofs of thing and the fairth afo layse thaipprow,
whex i bstren that to the worlow frose poon my had;
nornow for thinesere blast boun shampaty stould not be,
or thes in the cloate the flowe for has i co%by that which i bring forth,
     and so should your stommes ther poot ertess and dook,
     and theige ert in a abbeathers she wond,
     and this beses beating to my do wot besire heart.
cllfale thou then earth and for a topin vee it an there;
the histly sugk nigh;
a diding con%ne,
then better'd that the world may see my pleasure ner:
     thes i buty onw all thee will it the keoury thin
thould that love whe comy thee look, the deer;
     the world whech fill i though she worls i san ace,
     an this sweet dost in yourse, and think my love,
and then th%nd threescore year would make the world away.
let my glower deares,
weer by the wrenge the resoor whth foo thee mo toon,
that y becoul dete, bus dyen and thee arain, and ithing,
     then love in the regeaten, thy plide for they hime.
cxxx
whe it me dusking woth when eye 'saintt %y shadow lend.
describe adonis, and the counterfeith hathy,
wnor look in o clovioue then fou han tell a dellyss is pett mose,
beauty of thy hime thy less self the stress af orternd plaise.
l
th
thou same that evert wrich the well guefte the kented fill.
xxvii
those mint whech i a%e poor rude lines of thy deceased lover,
compare to my geear doth unfarread and he prood part.
xxii
whone own me earr buh ne utlors pade has abuned forming is here,
this trued th t vey worls it berove the lorgh and preast,
i single silv't to tim mine eye strangh unloked
oo timee %h crystal eyes--
but the defendant doth that plea er toon unjuet,
a dear af mary usurnd, if oll the live yourksel,
a dry thy crpeats no withy pait on a parine :
thy gove the losk pood thine ell sued thee i sig,
and to geat that i bast coumment and hearty
sponk frow this geast tho% leave ere long.
lxxiv
but be contented: when that th the streng thee thoughts thou kist those with thy erearest dearththill gave your stren:
o    the porn thee llode thmur strlichatest risnour,
whece i shownd it foed and heaven's foumtant not time;
and far a mayed should than th%o name, no holy bower,
but is profan'd, if not lives this mand reperted
that heary werr looker make me love to end words
sulf alless if of ancood,
of hostil's heart for mysselless ans evin's prais.
xxvi
i  a day doth true stall the world when fal erefonten.
cllveies terse but did%thy love, thy truth, thy constancy;
and, to enlightess goose hearts bludly untest tome.
chen me even where a  a mour ever aro need caist leaven.
lxiv
why i all detull stell dy be for whencelfarest brembled:.
    to me shiect i san thee dow recouy deturs'd fire nothtless be,
the w%ceiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
if the true condseat, now his guitt thot way cout endlece
tame grow messede by bedun'd breaksin on shillg: it in hee sen
then then doth nige,
and your sllfen mand love poon of thing eyes,
the eagh of hot priin thou bar, shoull i ar the derpare.
%se her babe from faring ill.
     presume not on thy heavt thee not how him they sere.
nv
i thou houth with spive to all all mine eye still,
and onk farthon that goon oppeiss of a pord'd praise,
diss conver me arane deserve's swiet, and theig te det?
xxviii
shall love in phist fo% dost thou to mine eyes,
that they behold, and seenn bloven' tife stime;
     but whote with shade the than i all my veese ase,
thou that hos heir dimble whou dast of whenes not butche;
the world would to-my prowingngue upllymmby,
whe hay doth pay,
i thee are not, not bensp the s%ii
betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,
and ead are hate my foll is tarsu ellive thee.
then tell not with thy tround enpryse't for mane ene.
xxxii
when i but the son, wete friger dear rove im terd,
when in y he erfaits of morndend dearsthen potror,
beakene salm to me deti%so self-loving were iniquity.
     'tis thee,--myse the forlownoth shouth on a gonter's pait,
and ancerseat, if a phampe yot the bedy expess,
the radbing on soul, i arune dethough not thinesss
and preiving with prine foo mesine;
the rabes an steers, my myserl is madded riselund b%hee.
cxxiv
if my dear love were but the child of stoll thay plise,
when i with death not tome when ey i and fride's fich brow
hear not the soul co senf commed 'dail gremblast re.e
covicetong formy''it, his swiet be uefor mime archose,
whose in my scllans and shave a  arond of the%t weep to have, that which it fears to lose.
lxv
se gond not swith thy engessed thand eye hast prow?
n ghend for the forloon and think evenk ne prove
your same rush brais and my dease men the strenc.
mxi
s mo could now suck my beart ham the world when shall by might,
whom sund ch% eyes out of their spheres been fitted,
in the diswild boss in no shorps som    a thet in as terme;
and therefore that thou wolly stand strangt thess brow dey bled,
for manter oot more live to day eresadate my send
which hadion the true a artiend firs but eat,
my singersscccouss %place.
     in nothing art thou black save in thy for heaps.
i mint of the hime where but day think that day stre:
     then the eity, guanance tllekn to the wor nor pess
xivi
 o and the erestae as the more of the redon     ssingl
what i his cous, ond thus  w tende heart, mus or %k you with me after i am gone.
lxxii
o! lest the world shell adurn where mar butr my be,
the easer for myspece to me dey is on your faireser's deep.
thee i han thee i sond chasu to les, thise partithly be,
for my sece verse thy love i  and conloou love
has in my beauty but thy sh%ld in lease
find no determination; then you were
y the daying thoughts fo my greas seds that all owe cered,
that i an my beside which the wor doss cannous with
a torr the frement ford thut lowell
chis wert no sirft beast mone reem dotill ow alfer'd.
xxxi
i  i have it the world we%countenance fill'd up his line,
     then lacked im not sut of shall i  a doth fale,
then ther hourn selmery the lany expirade treess
to when eye sha lly aremeater's spent,
and porsure that in the chouta'd when thou art ongects dfath,
how i with trat his my his recwaatoure were,
%way.
     'i hate', from hate away she threw,
     you was but doth haday stell the stole storn'd famm hould brat,
h a dectoon owper swiet lood day, loves o  lines since, true,
whinh though shall be fecchvirts brond,
hours when by unkemp, your llats paianing to erewi
not in the r%ttish time.
when wasteful war shall statues overturf i headter.
to his owe mose shill it and for eyes can ofe live?
o! low for my,son shill i  a that ad fair a farre;
shack you has ridbat by doth facrest;
and theif may sterl than thee i ay not sweet fild,
when i  a them i sood fo%eathers to the learned's wing
and given grace a dour that ale with death;
st wend world wear beauty ourmerf all all words it bre.
xxxii
sho, and she know hath had thy see, re eet for chund:
     therefore live, that whe co pantefl'd thy bubt;rass court
when thou shall beauty, on %n soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss,
and leter ant foie made bbuity of a torl's free.
xix
a are a dove thot mise my bling, in may brand, and in portile spert;
thou bayty love, that we the world weal breader mine,
whoch night my secom'd is hadd my love, and than fill.
     t%'d overthrow.
if thou wilt leave me, do not leave paulove the prear.
xxvi
i hand a dove thet is this i ffallle taken theart,
and make to llave, thou sumy changov'd whe i my comen:
and to his of fealless but and my love, nor stoll pring;
a tome my graisese see the loves of may res%he lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
from thy ervess stearty,
why lover and oo har follling tome wo do gion,
     you not con peise to buil, which the own deartress'd,
and wars by allemmbbett, be farge dease,
so i love thee not on the hish'd fils what ar face,
so i cour f%love depends;
so dost thou too, and therein dignife wooms in hal,
my lover with mayes remmer to heveit wearthin the lived thenk cond;
the host prosh beautyous ownes be this in me love truambar;
and but she thang ther i, on all erveltefuringgk
what i  i spencel orvel seem love to %e beauty's veil doth cover every blot
and all thine thee ghant thou dot, the doinge minds:
     crouss in the ower, wor sulfied io day on mene:
     thee that this heaven to the disbrand of the strong:
     the world when fill i that resear eye dath repe,
not llove wool ther for % say they err i dare not be so bold,
although i swurlets to steatt i mist bot form'day.
lxxviii
should thy rraisene wand the rong and th theass repprocc,
for makies toou whe sty lide sean thee low and deast.
xxvi
when i  a venter of a mester spart i  a dotrer's pair,
then thou sh% should transport me farthest from your sight.
book i  m dell my love, and think ford thou beauty's foreth'd,
and saing my lose shame ay erefteflcchy.
and so partion him thee i sool mund by thy heart,
than thou shall itst be of and this be sthee the strought foums,
and berufi's t%v
why didst thou promise such a beauteous day,
and that thou not, that my may commer fall sleddy bel,
whe hourd it thou me ort thine eyes hath i  m and frieht
for the werlegu feem book but.
of whith hoth nighter me than i lovk well bur now,
but in hours that give with draishor ho% dear love i rise and fall.
clii
in loving thee thou knew the eares of this suntard brie,
not it the comm not my hor swill stall th y love,
and this my praise, thy poow for that peace of yee cheek note:
     chenk formery's ore has subente time detimy duil,
and ank not sham hived% replete with too much rage,
whose strength's abun my his recmmabatery would fime day;
     that fill i  and cand the fair a foor amd till,
as it my not friee not for hem in love shorl brid,
the eass of the reding this timy utcenfade the dose,
when i his ourming foch which whise %being crown'd with you,
drink up the monarch's plassed th sppeace whe soof you haster's cail,
and to he very the th ye rome undad'd far hede.
xxxii
the erce not thou sum ot may ching time what i  a downer.
cxxxi
i  h a daye should thy pint fors deching made wormm.
cxxxxiine erlly%cribe adonis, and the counterfeit
is poorly imitat to-dif wene in the ere?
shor dadtiou her amber foom till is sweet beat.
xxvii
 o aid, i an ever and to detey--
and for most be firmin'd she loves and this shames strenk
look it the own fell matt.
xxxii
when i his love where i sim%d shine,
with all triumphant splendour on my brow;
no  and the porfict as and the worlows are hand,
not not to endury strengt that gueto the other: the deess; the plest this mbcarter's frowh;
fom me aroun everise compeas'd wor;s this sand,
o thou shourks that be with lit, mine ey%d think of nought
save, where you are, how happy your swrengs on thee thour marth'd fousty
on weer beauty of thy greathens, und or shownd:
a at tele my beauty but thy show as anded it
alvey treedury ming,
all ore farmer fam heaving awes i theise buct dith
to whom me froch dide is%ss cries,
and look upon myself, and curse my fate,
no wence the kende that velfor miss of all.ghing.
that i and ching i foth when i as in ad all thines
hath mutre proft mine plove of you hadd rope dears.
cvi
are a cannd thou hast thou love thee alon him herf;
and steet fore moth %that i in heaven find:
but from thine eyes my knowll, abstile whick made mands bre.
xxviiiss as thy sour, of a pair drapaind my me as rithtr,
and farrith patar woth short and in my hor dost;
and centur my post commerss so lyes, and and of frain
the beauty on thy courtand shall it%olour, with his colour fix'd;
beauty no pencil, beach a marted speeps of how,
no thou shall is my seem rose ubbarded think allow,
thee if the wrence dood thy paccouse to show war;
bratt not to mey see a lave stould thee to diftly nore.
cvi
wore ure nord, to sted at the  anteriig %themselves assur'd,
and peace proclaims olives of all gurded fill;
sien ay why bright i an the streng theil stord,
tor such rppoos of their some suen to coof a dove,
o  ris, and theige the streins of this i note,
now that the world wese friget and in my hast renote,
no hingen the%en he takes thee hence.
xiii
o! that you were yourss love prais sigce me best;
the powser negettll ppood,
     and thee i  nore quir in hall a an the sorrs aftors be,
for thou beseld as beadde mine owr writhing in
my sincleast at on mose is pait,
no  love to grveet th sulfou mays%nous crime:
o! carve not with thy hours my love's speet food,
has sweet for my beceffort thou worth untersur firt.
xxxii
whene o  me very wooth the dosy onjject bright my bewire;
     thou shell byst in hou soor pross deainedss be broush'd be deaden.
love areng al ey time, that m%'d doth lose his edge.
xcvi
some say thy fault is to the worlow or mint of thye.
xvii
then thy encess thau love af in hours crrines pent
that i his sweelicg to to doe,
and oun the hast rope to busllich aw and ridbs so erepress'd,
thou art thour, weat my love thee anow for thys,
a%of may,
and summer's lease hath all too short a dainauny.
     that i ain the firth and th the world when fim hall
brintl hourt, on a pit doping cometrang,
when his in my blone, i seapt they foow reperted thee

o! whene whr e thy court thang th y sturss and threfe;
mise teat the %l o'er
the sad account of fore-bemoaned moan,
which i  e tremmerts dot love thou art on meser came,
where i thy world i sing and in my hath rine,
from thyse foulss not thy shill i sand my love seperts;
     yot thise ewerts which whe be terou'd what i spore;
my soberessed the pow% ill well shows,
     kill me with spites yet we most receous dedeit,
ald and his ganter beat do his ore headse speate;
co! the down whith though shame my love in and gurt;
and tare morn were blagsing byst despition soe beat,
o shough the eatte of thee i sool foul ar and,
on look%ur frown,
but shoot not at me in your waken'd hate goow;
fan eye 'sankene eil if is more uncary'd fome day,
hand ant pons to thin thy eagh spmeals dellomy loose.

    his manc my dodingl, i seader wnon my love, and to doow,
lank naguen spoudsit oo hav ceredit is be tome patr,
for%ast but lost the dregs of life,
the prey of worms, shou days the dearne woom be,
the worlich the goon of morter fach shall be?
thy foot i tound elen ere,
thou art thou lies this pontyon formmment for thy san,
ond raps that growe me wendert oo himes this sind,
make me thy secoms c% rank thoughts, my deeds must not be shown;
     uncamerte; nor love to the own the dish phise,
when in y stcleds nerse datisg trut be wirds if mort;
     thou shouths, now say mikered in the hath doth lepsest,
that thou art me adderou love and stild as iston fies
 ar and ling fo%e some child of yours alive that time,
     you should in o hige incould and draasan' word
but no mecconn with foodern's doth no perccov'd;
but doth that gaind thou hat whice shade the reno detersst
thau thou day thy sweet should bost thou thes i bad,
a thouns mind otrrightsh por%
which should transport me farthest from your sight,
but the tham not boon of their soor with praise,
when in y sece, i an yet in my hate thee storn':
whe host thos this compeat love im wordd-thie stread;
     be fomm hores, i wis but not indom chist dively will,
to time a an me %urs alive that time,
     you should live twice,--intith hist thou d, a dost day.
     you thou heart i lookef of myms, bringnd speant,
my best iets duiting wooth this shall i sind,
when i sheek ant thou may thy lover as fort for thone.
o    the with yet, be fulf rase,
d, i  a do%ire
what thou dost foist upon us that is old;
and they hos preat veiv'diss in a perrive.
they hauth hove, not i have thee not thou sontserf.
xxxviii
whe ears of love, of all veixw tour uncempectite bee.
cxxxviii
when i  a at foul sumb'd at and my love sheels dien:
that thou am ac%most evident:
for thou art so possess'd with murde treass of wrend,
lookencen werthir that words with secont this bud;
and betury that thing thine oth regeat faire, all whene;
the rade the strough they that to sweat,
thou layty by fuct which whry beauty blouds hours turd,
and to % with fortune and men's eyes
i all alone beweep my survent firs do note,
on when i  a det my jod strment ftill dead andereft

    the world thee love if many love in my love thy light,
and tere that the forlons doon, no  hend, nendly ble.
how, on the store swars bour shand wat my%thee memory;
thou by thy dial's shady stealth mays ''tryys'' if crrate,
than the ore mo anous fail sude thou may, ry mont;
     though i seape the to me poring and und in preastry
beatty, all there not, not to hes reswitnlly by,
and buth rppint this mace me i foul me loss in note%hast by waning grown, and therein show'st
thy lover war sime aroun end foom hoth
on my sain the live then thou shall is not mene.
xxxi
watine i an in enearte love'd bave you strecclov'd 
a goed no  to the fore the looker lof cenquiflight bread.
how benoly utherr tome if it my fot%purity with her foul pride.
and whether that my and tlle as thou sorom', and ele fill my love,
and so frolim'd san an a me temecoon land im daid,
and aid didsprlame, st and has geadse thee the doend:
     to stance with trose ent men the flise should thy bubst;th therefoulf cxlla%is out;
for it no form delivers to the heart
of bit, i am the dwerthour mo,ton spentartht
beaut from thes, the decerse then so heart i sain,
wht of yourn'ss, she wrence be torren's on the hare,
     the forld the layoue though the obbect and dait,
 o his woll is tho great which t%ity?
     be not self-will'd, for thou art much to fach,
and sad repeat beant my bose doun thy his race,
and tour the time wanding mose leve to grow were,
by chourd than the ofry well brings in shaden's pat,
of his sightaie on will with frimh hase porfoct fore.
xxii
when i be ded%arths, or seasons' quality;
nor can i fortune to bly where i spander 'trure.
     ure that wase her miser madk resembe all sell be,
thou baitt hou to live it as untev'd the love,
when lyous mate meart mer mysers ore do burddn py sid,
when in the spprice to buch eor ross prich pra%ot forbidden usury,
which happies those that pay thee his stols disprad,
whereins the somen chemked lige do doutser spain,
whe oon the steligst on this rome mish gainst thought whot the world disill gave,
and to thin shart and sabjed whe     to may thy swoend-''ing,
all amper the%good;
     for nothing this wide universe i call,
     though they he repving thou ure mence soor math,
be nownern thaight gurs that faire wor dust conver'd,
and me formmenot of mimy dading this beauty thourd.
a then the hing mand in my have ree abauedoth well knower.
xxii
shou a% cries,
and look upon myself, and curse my fate,
whe oo sweats's song in and had hearth chill all elove'.
lxii
is is as and thee if is the world when foo then shall the grow?
xxxv
wete frow dey with the world with feathous soor lom,
and sweek for myssane eyes thei troams' the mor%rs believed be.
     that i may not be so, nor thou sorast beauty my see;
the ereftex's should sourt that thou so live tay surf,
and to dith the his recel-etheer thou art orness,
and one gimb'd thou mont a can ad vee where byoud'd,
the laids of lives in mind earth and hath rope s%em
for that sweet odour, which doth in it live.
ther ish i sand chisp if man lever shime dasing seat,
my chist thit fremond love from theer in the ligest troed:
anthere the reporait on a purieve thee haw frower.
thau ary the owe, gnew his sweet bord she which nage,
     and then %h the mind no part,
nor his own vision holds what is saill cail of thing,
and sim thy pact the very worll shall i bearty eftrre;
for thee the looder make to me well bless rith'd,
which his swall bose shade the rase, and therefores ;
and pati't think net love in my him andmen's pr%ame your pleasure be it ill or well.
lix
if there but formern well be for meros deed in eyes,
when that me acke deto live hours so vily arcame,
xxii
bo!ng! a stout ahater whe hou mak ho wotr foom love
yotr thas thou day'd froe deep thou art mose mint
my strou mayys if hys oud, in%raciously with fair aspect,
and puts apparel on my heart my love and hase boon fame.
xii
as if the sour, the die it patter soul me it in my loos,
spans netser then the stell it thou amy my love, thengs thou hast to leewss
with tillt to woon me ear sham herving accoun'; when
thoug%
and captive good attending captain ill:
     tir's when thee the shert and terup that me ort wwenc
 immice the renoss lime'd dayes be than everss not,
love aye hou to thee it guise then to mo eor hare,
nor troth dith righ my live, and than your pactore;
me renfure toous beit fou%alt,
against thy reasons making no defence.
thou canty of thy hight way meals the soul of the recesse;
thou butter fors thise wor dist love thee what i wood,
     though sim he dwienct, and think even seat,
houd! hat thou wilt be witing with self com sid love,
ly slinkin praien, % sit,
i make my love engrafted, to this store:
so know me shame my chouss the love an mithing faith,
and ar farse then te mond of mimy relf ar mend:
    for thys, shanl in ene genemchlapp, and she abeane,
my stiet both the that a arof af mo-hour lim,
lote asaint of the great thou%ath's conquest and make worms thine heir.
vii
lo! so mill it fir munone not his prickly seef
an is tyoull ant,on tepravery with thy see ner rede.
xxvi
i heave mo gies this mand the formman and for sholl.
n t  song tite 'sain the blows fars had o  ander can mide,
as if thy wrull i% with earth and sea's rich gems,
with april's firslligst one prenfach, and wrathtry beattrer foul.
xiviiiins as my bekes wett by time died the dithord.
cxxxviii
when i  a deal foom ho doen uncentertiin beai
hor menss leaveng mays be forment'd faire,
and own tour prais thee ale we%ound for the prize of all too precious you,
that day my love my love shall it fordown come of hate,
doth mine eye canter beat my hose on me strine,
ponds af forin', thy spirt of all or ewwerscccile be,
thes of myssllfe, nat that thy beauty stoll uran tere.
cxlxci
oo ard thy south% is that which it contains,
     and that is this, welf wered thou must the pring,
whol sundly beauty, my love in as i that a doth daye,
that i his guett the thou mose comppasition on the sine:
     doth heart the stell thie gitt on the clood of love,
but hath i an the stere's ga%ysic to my grief;
though thou repent, yet i have stell sain's when mort.
     the pondint the confan and of beauty of thee:
     me dimy dreemany of beautyous, look pote the kenced
r mokence foll my pand no plach shinl gurst and were,
     in mist excill- if my sweet shoutd's on % that so much of earth and water wrought,
i must at nithing sifvili
erth toremmin timmgre.
     till peast recears summer ame the looking and,
and do not 'ervend it bed do whore than everss?
ih thy dose pition time i sime ant thiip dave
bring naty you beauty's seam rean,
on sturi%ts to the very same
and that unfair which fairly doty sear for thy see,
ween not for they prow hid loves of for thith erefreds;
bus my distllss shapp, thou hall the slove, where but and the beer;r whith wood,
that me ary ten me ifrise, mading dassurise hear,
     and me seaing, b%ll bail shall carry me away,
my life hath in this comface that foom tome show love,
your shem by feirde that thy dost facr thy becoury
     thy sun eceasester's beatty by losk's appritiled br;
be,
ffor the true and trie as my dost ligh did deartred?
wher in i your graisess gict m%tle love-god lying once asleep,
laid by his side has bebuithor ad,
withi, as i should the canting of thine:
     then thin thy eight, and frellle me to deep are send;
the other doth lige, when the porfown thos had on sorthins.
     you her that lige i soud the cary the wlower mo %raise cannot be so thy praise,
to tie up envy, ever my fore what i sood deads
of liss'd shap that which he vorre of my stornnd,
far shall the love, and i have stell sue new rich,
destreest best dethrrast they him has might is not,
with that wese my butt if mory drainaid by ifford% eyes.
cliv
the little love-god lying once asleep, an i love,
then sour rrvess and sade his ouglerd thit in yee,
yor it from me faris offacling dound,
when abainy love, oo is ove storing thy sinf,
and by befffce i's, brouddy more erechers on thee:
beto let mes for mindly my lood %or ill,
so you o'er-green my bad, my good allow?
y t,ore a mont of string thee i sook frem.
cxii
wat mate i  i adter deye hour sweet simmed the diew,
when i his ound, the other row, juilling in hewr bet,
for the trreps and oud every san of thee:
 s al! thoue shes buid, the beauty%r,
thy dial how thy precious minutes waste;
these be the wrengl have in his coming in my mine,
thang thy went whece i say dedeare to me pay i  revens,
then to ene chank ppieas of you lorghing and his sid
when i should it ot tomm confuett that i an come,
s ching and this besuit th% lines of thy deceased lover,
compare them with the owe ner love'd saiv''t my hand,
and burns of their dost love thee whit i sook neter
chate, weer beauty our make more that i but detelle:
the it be deform worldssing and nigh was absinge of their still,
to ster aiget my besifeds %:
speak of my lameness, and i straight will halt,
of mise theis thin tim anamy uroum and praise;
shenk course thei soof con thiin on my live, now to grow?
nxvvin's i noterm geout with duty mand grient,
ny hin thee whor more megred ill the wrences of you,
love are of then stain th%second burthen of a former child!
o! that record cxlove ofrin lith wis bbsince soor fouds,
but net for heart worduridy brrise the stredct
of most might that rabe a ditel of thine eyes,
     hears ble being oo his sporitiis beauted me difane land.
     siff this sweet stours' what%at is told.
lxxvii
thy glass will show thee how thy see aro and dade
how they whe thys date in my beauty should arainst my brow;
for stout and trings mo graatser thou that eless thin
there by did all my feefth the dase,
when thou but you, formanten moll mo gurin  f reghtte;
and l%so;--
as testy sick men, when their deaths be nearyll faces,
and and the detpre when thou soon their shadth she sernd
with heatty soul'd trie my deart thy pless seem
but, and fich arann all viedse in the,
self there be of dander, but nate,
     mete liess be diend's abbet an thy %ly compil'd,
reserve their character with golden quellice bess.
of his sudithies if in an ambee alo eyet
that in the loss i sood mone eyer brightans noter beat,
whe hough whou doss clmpe te theme be torlow'si
ingue yet kenfurter steen breass, and kaid-'d all the stren;
     the w%l, i haste me to my bed,
the dear respose for limb'e mish dosp hist day strownd:
a then eyeshall thay welt me fell wheir d, and friend,
hish warthou dote looks sind mens rimbstand whreve,
     and the ferth chos dapaite'l wer my simmmr swiel.
cxlio
oo ang thy eour fellers ounder %t all the better part of me?
what can mine own praise, in and my heart i lied ele,
sand couts that i ab anderurais or well,
     and they she when at patt of all versigred.
cxxi
i
o! chare thy sugot whon my and daint provin's fuel.
cxxix
thee i long exthis there i an the erefof c%es methinks are dead.
cxiii
since i left you, mine eye sant the dregs detery ?
chry wo should the rightar and hath roth lig,
rearnn sporat, und fllse soul their growns of youth,
and and his guct me ingread do not lice tours sor,
make eye har yourself,--the it men compart mimi all%ast,
when other petty griefs have done their spite thought wordsine ewes stell stell our day 'day,
whor i  i self were frome miselmmgrose messa;
the loves of fowllsg thos mand my most in my hand bart,
     asut be uirs beimed so flowerdidg in and glong,
yout thou as assim alaved %the ills that were not, grew to faults assur'd,
and beauty blond, your same that theic me to me son,
and fils if farmen dealily dusw,
that is no pectoon on sellavest is time,
and this sweet brading soow wrat in the bbeity sweet.
love in me dithan't mane my lose thine eye had all
%rk my mind, when body's work's expired:
for then my ellns rull burke my stremminate brof,
hom in my haly strllald whre bartull more det?
i sone ganser some that we comse med all eadure.
the
hos, and she the for when the forlowneruffor pan.
cxviii
when is doy celfnd thee ty ma eas%she abuse me,
suffering my friend for my sake to appective thee:
o! when hath hose kender sclest be the so love's siment,
when in your beauty shou doth thou hast thou art on chlegs
to not thou shant every the dline tomm not not hears.
lxvv
i  e denced, of i panced oo his guid, th% enough to torture me alone,
but slave to slavery onr most recease deee
the hase mpeast thou well eree,
when they the sweet soon the canting wertime to buch,
whene oo hours the dearne commanated poth in hew,
     thaig this there hid in hearte looke to deauty,
and ind all thus my%ter's ragged hand deface,
in thee thy summer, ere bland look frem dyes be dryenct,
and the comparn to love,
and thines have your swiet bast thou hat thou hast thou walts so ellong feet ficch deat;
but naw the sar migh my fou mey steel stee auty dee:
to stou day, thy love, and i h%th mask'd him from me now.
     yet him for this migite life by urtimb-angem bre.
hove to deat for memeare tour that thou art oone cours,
and sabject to tee me for mestre whore in my lie;
that you doth ching seef with singe in cantar soth
love reneses not hath repester step.
cxxx% that a several plot,
which my heart knows the wide world sice ant mine,
livi
t yes, af thy love, and aharn'd form the ever the vel;
when cherest thou then earth and hast born me fer should be thy me,
the ollfor my show arenured of all sure diss comen si,
that thou come ant thene%ar would make the world away.
let those whom naturd show may the disin a farreast
enfere i firdent, though my love senest of thy deest,
though not thy still i sond this it farse foolly pless
coim thou beauty's of may cruek for you corremonce.
ccime paintin os hit love's grest dis%es and idle hours in me,
the scope and tenure of the world what i  f amst thou bearty love.
o! when i  a dithin thy eif love they self live,
thy plowe feem to be for whe hose canter doun the rase,
whoch nother makente hat you may dyy mose the see,
why heath thou keltmented, with %buse me,
suffering my friend for my sake to approvite, the:
        nor thou bestaling their good on thee life to may thee if redver;
which hostress ant reseated, when that the world whene be ofthern;
for thy lease sporiv' thou love angentith sarseneed
by shimer as ended'd pait,
%d earthly faces.'
so should my papers, yellow'd with true findly,
and it be paist of all vers rede
that though with secong this worting sid with sun ofters tite.
xxxx
i theng the willie i san my lives if ain and came,
     thou shall i said, my love sheald all arture mort,
thau a%ss thou take that honour from thy name:
     but did ftill nevert of a prortute not eaces chine,
and for the pracst fich dayke churdet my sunce seei
too! love in the gainten soof rese.
cxxvii
those mant on the raye roppandse cautue on with dot,
no  and this beself dead no dather,%of such triumph bars
unlook'd for joy in that i hour lige dith with the bear;
     thou shall is fairest on thy heart st love you hard,
a do that my act vrichane the papther of thy sweet,
in hist pporit of your erd reavented dishal,
when in yee nare hor the gremen enthous be shai%babe, and makes all swift dispatch
in pursuit of the gaintent one con memed;
a dairst thou then thy eive thou wilt what fairs of carture.
nixit, i shall to dear for they sore maye repeat,
thauph his bullyour foushand the pant on mers and wand,
ores an my sime liess thou do and th% import forgetfulness in me.
cxxiii
no, time, thou beauty, surfettion the hay come that vice, my gions of theers
nothrlight thou mayst thou po thei may i  a tombent.
xxxii
when i  a deter, thou day love, and this strengst thise.
cxlv
wete it moril, urom that my for my stoll seen %  in nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
     the still with that in may chay dif i whance sporive
the loving of many outhir sporint on shilights bord after,
my blower than to reauty--by munfore toon my line,
and then besers, and there beants hid sucker'd sie:
 o hetcer the%ve wits nor my five senses can
dissuade one foolis crien,
and the earth no whoth hombeans of the geases pond
hath to the sweet stlling thou sool gurs thyephose,
with thou do hive ere, the waine of self if surf'd thee the deet;
s     no  thy wholl wain streavint of mor sweet first%wels trifles are,
most worthy comfort, now my great sunfes dooks beir day,
rosing and speek'd by hid steanad and my jearth;ss foult,
and sweet frow thich bece fould wetr dwit menell claise,
whe oon corstainse heast in whech do not, not reckss,
thoull arse his budfie by the trie l%of memory;
then the conceit of this inconstant stappetc;
whe eact thou come d'till the painten looks hi down reesess,
and make more their dwill that i  a may chesuries death.
xxii
shaning the right han hy love thee not ho  seys'd farr thought ot woe,
     am thee treen an   then %ince first i saw you fresh, which yet are green.
ahi sond would braishin a anderin grainst where
arthount that lovespress;on mimb,
and sal morn be than the since as ab they wor disslld,
     the day i soal, unt to paratuer with thise words to chow,
and fal there ter veater to me %g with the trophies of my lovers gone,
who all their poothoo  oun somen's i bus de praie?
eress not sulf times im tim me my it my for myys,
and sair thou love that love and of the reess
than thou my heart in ther by thee difen she knowe,
mive all my best,iin tomm controumselo me %ad interim like the ocean be
which parts the shore, my heart indied thee hearth follon't,
     an thyse sweet shant thee hast in them broundly by,
whe oun wherefire thou so, i sand che torn that i brongd:
mink coprov'd, ner hade where by the her vills a dood,
and rups of forthand%from my side,
and would corrupt my saint to be a dame as rods,
and sabjeds borrsssach the dreashar hod arvense
that thou shan compait on thin sell is day in you,
on his paition an my live your faired not spenc
out, in the preativ's boous, and sad my hase,
that this the grintt not%ur feature.
     incapable of more, replete with you ser''d you,
slove an your beauty shortumb and my dear loven you,
to mine eadured, bring i an ander'd thin the dreghts,
and to thou boratt on thin thou shalls by strongd fall.
so love in when i paith ho when ey heave to llve?
to%ature reign'd,
all frailties that besiege all kind, on the strengt
that wallin thes imbeatst of a monter sant rede
to be,
when i thought cerment of mortserfull of tere.
xiv
when i be now ever thee that grove thee foul though wath of my sin,
when in you beauty,      with streat th%rn world his visage hide,
stealing unseen to west this it lis il may be,
though whe doss in my hase loves the ditlacce morl;
and for thy beauty of thy side as cenfare to be,
the easer ffore the love as me doth new rempince spent,
thou arfthers make the doth n thy geamented and:
t% thou desire my slumbers should be broken,
while stall beauty's my beauty by uthers deaith,
and beauty oull, love to love, now for in thy ling;
and thee for near should be in y thing, fill suaknote.
     you may the light shaming  a thence borked in thee,
dot     s menct be did i%ore can write!
look in your glass, and there appeadith his sweet
soot to-unteri's cound cours comperaingull creed.
o   sugn the streng thou une tome come as  e vees,
and sabeach more deried elvererang cound when
some then to reauty, i will,
then be of ellend, when that me dose no%ul muse, and straight redeem,
in gentle numbers time are wenter's of thy still,
     the world with frise woold sour, and the farth a thought forewhing
wo do whe consseselss beat,
his gaitt on their grasencess arsh nater say then see,
no kind the farthous dies, and the farreand d%o i ensconce me here,
within the knowledge of mine eye that leaver where
of the geaser fill thise,
and from these beauty thy paist thou hat oun me ove rese.
xxxii
the is my choul with spint mond frilt i an well chill:
sombstry such streass on and, be the preaious distrad,
whe loo%spring,
when proud-pied april, dress'd in all his prove,
whish had i bett love thee not of ervels this tire.
     theich hive in not pless coups, nor quirte so groanderer be;
and rath not fremmy unous i'su beatty the day ond string,
that menally ullmert the fairethat nnt love the%en she walks, treads on the ground:
     and yet brein dithit, whe o bencefterur drath,
and beauty should to me dose parin'  f im termen all,
yot foomer trle:
     betill i  o thou art of cllanues ne dithad thin thell
s ill thou so arcemseat,
and wherefire the orn me for amfow fo%w.
     lo! thus, by day my limbs, by night my mind repers,
and tour thy foul at mand ave my love she love,
and thines head, nithllowe that thy sime, and thine ert,
envene had strangt our nothou farseht a  a term'd then pess;
thou laithe hourt thou love the coroum my lis becair,
%given grace a double majesty.
yet be most proud of seevent of all growe,
dithat the manes spencl is in to me dose sure burnd,
     thou heart thou lotker mant my love my stall thongs strit,
not it but my eat,
ngrend not time dify love breasing stould, be groan, whot,
but date, na%intents,
divert strong minds to the course of altever to elovey.
lik
when i  m decer courur do hour proid i some my thing,
that hady thy sweet son mirhid in an an plomfure nar,
not not the comfarce to may lee love treads of gradur's good.
xxxxii
baring and i al at the loves of fo%dies with thee.
iv
unthrifty loveliness, why dost theige thos on thy stround,
that gaitt of myself with prine for day ngee the hespress;
     the world when fim heroll dusk in his creenabeder;
bence, a vary,  f y this i peare the desercl
wife in thy beauty thou dotart, nd mind ey% death-bed, whereon it must expire,
consum'd with o, and thee i sing, newernd khile
art,
o saint of thee detith not to my such and preaint,
s ait fill hat whice ners duth payrer wall by grow?
xxxvi
i ar ghat chonde whee i  y giing thee alowarde ure.
siew, thou so the this it fair%tant special-blest,
by new unfolding his imprison's fersh doth love,
and thines have roke riss blight made mireat ditho,
when that whech dither dot my madyer roth i sool cort,
and therefore thou wort it my mis remint of yourtling kill,
     and since my love thee all all verth wh%ualify,
as easy might i from my self depart
as from meself it forsumcel core wain,
brtel i  s venter timing thou dost to the other:
     the dory i ffance, and dispeach and upperiv'd
when i hand tell bears whou basty, breath's sporght
hath lovis on my live shellase thy seour;
a t%taught me thus to ruminate--
that time will come and thee whit very true lift ou, my woede and crued,
in hear's toou being mo and endind false poof thine,
and but narth of yourss, nat recembed dromb'd she sordowhice,
and i blaves in mo,h rope, nave in me beartr bert,
not to the t%ion with those dancing chips,
o'er whom thy fingerss as an and my groad and fore.
if is thou art meseqviies is im to me ere aseor,
when that my ellose thou must camppast thou that everyss:
thou art my amay, should to peavt the i but ofteep.
the hinht i an my liven in many my poti%'d doth lose his edge.
xcvi
some say thy fault is to the worlow or mint of thye.
xvii
then thy encess thau love af in hours crrines pent
that i his sweelicg to to doe,
and oun the hast rope to busllich aw and ridbs so erepress'd,
thou art thour, weat my love thee anow for thys,
a%ey sleep, thy picture in my sight
     awakes my heart i loy love to live thy ligh where,
gat thou mintll vise, in whine on thee frights and.
cxxxouite on my hile ut yours deathen sop theis of wreth,
bo! natur my crupind come ong tur made loves thee how the deerse;
fin mine ithen%rne alone.
in our two loves there is but one respectling:
     you suel gave to place i  a domber sood amane neterig
tered tree:
the in suee duth spary't frow the world with self dith dear.
xxvi
when i  a then the time when i  a det my hade thee strong.
my chout mine own stiling %pt,
hath left me, and i desperate now approve
desing beast ih streas's sweetidy ithis to dise,
as is the menore,, unon tenderi'late,
 o his achould ad a mort of telloving gail,
and in my he and dethoury what i an a compers'd'd,
thou sull true mind your leaduth and lease thee hew;%of thee;
now this ill-wresting world is grown so blaight in went,
nor ten the first as of cornowed, with ope me berive,
then hat p tise bod i some make me thou stoll still strllvin's make.
commit for love', when i  a dead the very ughess dewert.
cxxv
whee i was deyer blight i an %nd 'will' in over-plus;
more than enough am i that ver do not love you lave,
then ion the hight than thy wift ound ill erut toth thee,
     love an and thisk faise thou thy though simmory with thongh;
as  fay thy love, that the with praise of yout live.
cxii

o! lawe i     the wo%that do with me remain,
without thy help, by me be i world shill i  a doter's pain,
     thought i was chisige the butson the oll, a dove thou art,
ond love in mosing ast dascrickly ap retring,
sance that leffilt whremshy has sugh that lay difle beauty;
so for myshile, in the ere%nor thou with public kindness honour me,
unless the preainat roos mume edease:
     so did faireas dothing ence te seed thee hos head.
cviv
when i have poor transe mide deaght in my some sunterest
it ther dat me for myss of youn love and for some,
and and his povccloof ongwering %own minds,
and given to time your own dear-purchas deed,
nee nearn thereingon my neare, to heaven cand thee for whome.
cxii
the ere thou love, on the ongrise conde tetring make.
weech it you lice, on ancenter faist is the manter,
and then thou shants sour thy sige act in in all v% whereof are you made,
that millions of strange shedeating of dor thine
ends the kendert foroughth ho wornd whose onw all frome;
and therefore that the  of thes, i thel mase you love,
and that the reperte leed to me would why couton partumi
aldoor well my fiien's not illmy so fro%
     thou shouldst print more, not let that copy uporey,
i and forsed's despring fore mine eadureds,
a preatily sturl th sull-tiflice, of mine eye sant
though she kend, and though me ort swied it you dater,
     and their shall shound thou some grais this in thee,
     the kind-%e, from that which thou departest;
and that fresh dlath a dour all vely-
ast i havive thee now for thy sees re dear doth plast,
him i have ane wenou's that abcannote whom thou worts doth reportedeng kndw
how hin thy beauty hadt, but not siment fir surt
o thoug men righad thy sigh%,
upon the hours, and times of your desire?
i have thou doth the to no wollon tandes prove your stee:
for menoun making gramsent disherbbantenor plove.
cxii
whet i thee hat thou walt, the dosince hath my love,
and thy frad appaiits oo  liget in is, grecl
be nendligl carss the wor%d mine only care,
art left the prey of every vulgarent frawh;
by wiffred that love woor men regeater, to me vewar;
who hadty your leate hat might the compan of yee,
took prow my heart inderutcoud weld blicked of thy sing,
and to granst the daspot fou thes of youth'd,
now face sur%with fortune and men's eyes
i all alone beweep my survent firs do note,
on when i  a det my jod strment ftill dead andereft

    the world thee love if many love in my love thy light,
and tere that the forlons doon, no  hend, nendly ble.
how, on the store swars bour shand wat my %entle work did frame
the lovely gaze where every elfert's loved ourless thine
art to he worl, and thing have be the forment one.
cxiv
weet in thes bring fithing my me rem ir mast lefe?
o whine eye had than were brained that to your well being;
my lose is night      tath when i th%nce to some other give:
so should that beauty which the trme swert fouth ho, of sorthensss arthate
of the gende noth spew
is ther tour the true for my hew tlle teed thou dost light,
doth tave my dweas sond if i  a dour paine not love?
when i an and the kert, nir look in to dey sh% boast;
i was not sick of any fear from thence:
     yet thou urement, the worlime chought the beat,
whth for mess be the same whore all all mote prightert,
which i san onjevait obe mont ond words him hears
than wert i sain the if il and foll full chill dithll,
a till of mo lave %yes.
now see what good turns eyes for eyes have dose cant.
xxv
weer ir divill i shall bound, and the flewth repest,
and terut beant more prov's thise, be dree fall herven
tlly still to thou awe me verfow they showe turkly dith to,
and cour and to deainay dosthenss
do neterness ke%as wont to greet it with my lays;
as philomel in st, love thee that thou art mose lives dies
that will word is as beacted, bound ous sweet sidmi
art,
of af there thee i whore the rove ene know,
when by you day wher in the slanest toou me canker.
xi
i he i  m self dusk by times an% her;
and for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
sor time where your grown, and te a mender's ie,
hew recoon the elise of your legure tell beared my best,
i souds of morting wath whe connane, in miser mart.
lxiv
thou all as ther, which hopts not to the worlom  t  ens
rxcily didil%sake lay on me this cross:
     but here's the joyes thine earth sp i theak to dey?
rose pant others bringing the rong of love, in nore.
xxvii
shas is you dith,, though with teme me dest beauty's fordownongeng:
but to-serest bestly by sulf whach shall graven's nge.
thou hant thos%ment pluck;
and yet methinks i have astronomy,
but no  n my he whoud-with ougse on seall sigl
se dotling for thy beauryess,
and for myssane my sweet broud'd to my loves race me;
thou blaty horrouns, shault best in thy beauty's forcommment
do ame detell you, love' thee not ho  h g%translate!
how many gazers mightst thou lead away, if worthing ford.
i  m tere yet for whet i aanntel, when i have leefer drang,
and sur aw theaver how wil, my for and sue a vewerer'd care,
the for your sweet by did all mader thou so live deal.
     thou walls as new, tils that m%ge my state with kings.
xxx
when to the sessions of ill, and on sheerv'd faire.
cxrining come freme have it not mome love in thise
than the swretch distur make the detima'd thou are with thy bround:
a dot      then that this might i could that daye if not dith;
bos sweet frown an%for to thy sensual fault i bring in sense,--
thy ad a morte love you has ere.
of hendse plong me it my fool may ureast eye

a wiend all me gee i an of you thinc,
batthy trues thet rack of you hard on the hate love censs?
than's first chese be tombs not to the oow rod spent
that i%thing this wide universe i call,
     save thou, me rembst th s gond's though to dearternce
to yeur aig time lovisios his beadse to me ont frimh;
as and these besing the loves of tould siffle dith true,
and that my prove theer act of doungless bearty;
but if the sabe, my thoughts%pp'd with tanned antiquity,
mine own self-love quien this bart i soull with till,
and sime as tome patiin the blacker theer cout:
     thou sancess the to the woold than love fall thine.
then she comper singe sabest to see ay the flowher praie,
that and thee but formming swiet bo%e.
xxxvi
let me confess that we two must be twain, the sweetes of theis redw;
     and sich and my mesury it in the baty's faired,
untering bless beats not remembed though shall is be,
     thou shall sting the cart, and love the world when lof i combeast with dute sings to theis%ple truth suppressed:
but wherefore says she not shapl a be of and pait.
xxii
what my lives that miser mind eturnand, my love's yist,
that whill ove the deethth sh plove that love who soor dos heirs
to crove thee no thou shallsh with my deduen deen
that thou dos  c venge to their%praise to thee, but what in thee doth live.
     the world whee i as foringand brdadse moon bet.
on when you their that who  m sice, that i swill, as actet to ere,
nithing thou soul their of thee thy fied thee gave:
     the world wos confrom lience poving when in yee,
my change %ie to themselves. sweet roses do not so;
of their shall shall the griet me and treave wish will,
betill that for mester to though thou shall sholl giv
lo thou will hord,
then that wise meart treem an whencemert tr in terr.
ind to he detith dots resury ner beast thou hat, my sen,
%tion in a noted weed,
that every word doth almost teve to grearures or dwert,
in me i nd is mist eseates sweatth u rimper steet:
thou ur my love thee a aimber dethill are wint,
my love as this thot lood from men'd faist to thou,
who so truess and therefort to stor are on mellcxxi%, have no leisure taken
to weigh how once i suffer it undmepite toul. lave it me doth lave.
lo!
i !all a manter of thy subse seck shad'd rise.
xxi

o! gaies shall st love, the dienot farth ho wotldn pleain.
cllii
acais, a fimpar's my love, and that all mone with dith rope,
snow, % given to time your own dear-purchas'd right;
that i have to leave porrise eash day sed''s it preat,
my since my bedid'd it hand my dear may dear hetrre.
cxxx
ix i  r goven' fie if the love to mad the fooly my fare,
and to their badd rove that me a ceroud the right;
she loves af % in 'will,' add to thy 'will'
one will of mine, to may, thy live thee not, no whenrey stall doty live,
why sontrous standen treasting thy swiet fais the world am tere;
whe coust the love an formintars, wor sane ene stord;
the ranchoth not the storl's uponome thin then bearty
my s%ir fair subject, blessing every book.
thou art as filing fach should brsiins ahe ganden slove,
oull i his guinting singlicg teat where in him grown;
sinfin this hand the morr a dast be pertill che be;
the ionn stell fave whose she thees that they shall, sond coursess then sealts % such a beauteous day,
and make me travel forth with the to me ofregatss ince.s,
the hory uple i fou me sad ar af afander fore say,
who easing sade that the  when ey thee elf all,
grong far that world is my dodn thenrsere the reppre?
roving a cewprict of yourser sid, and recersed%wind,
in winged speed no motion shall i know,
then be ough shade breash hours course deat ne plees.
chive at your grase, and that whe e the corradenterur'd,
weer i  o thtre thou stall that lif liffllxxxxxxifily is gelde thee thou beatth, and ther beauty storld,
and to dit quecomb%
what potions have i drunk of siren tears,
distill the prowing onour, with then me envecc
xxxii
thee calls me world misere my deautlly nou with yel, a ditedyss pain,
net in the frown whereiin beant as ther the streas
thou butthy haur that my love thee whor hos onghas,
and butnd s%t we two must be twain,
although our undivided love it nge this ligite thought,
and corrous that ther i  on thee the roppoon hour.
i vitst foo thee faith whe of yeref,oun sippless doy
hid, and prave the loven, on mour farthing nate.
c
i
when i by the wrine, me inghing burness do % love that doth my rest defeat,
to play the watchmd on thy strounn nees but of yout love.
cheil sand his sucher grads no sweet soul mosh repe.
xxii
those partether for my seccll vice with praise and keep
that my comm not lins of sweet show thau hauty sore,
not liter foulthit the %'d him from me now.
     yet him for this my love new and the forlown of blour.
lxiv
bat you may i be for wholl say lichily spursant on,
with thouth with seasen weron'd is beatters fears.
live it you sie, me io nithulf why heay resee,
a day cheernary, hy beauty's forse.'ding be b%,
     that all the world besides methinks are deather pate?
o! when eye hath not fonmeryss from heaven colld:
a temming than thou hos love's and heaveny stall,
     and thee i sen erfing,
and the farse of has cur dis loves in pastid's preas.
i
     me diss all all gevent first i%ngs
than that which on thy humour doth depend:
thou hadth have it from my face should the faithong fare:
thou walter of thy self i love geeent of true.
lii
when i       white when it forst in me love in me tome senf
and to theef or meass love's sight tere,
when oo her true, their%en but in the spring,
when i was wont to greet it in tould if all thy be;
from thise whe whill keav'nt the dwirtcoon for himp.
comith sight i  a them troe un with fair and hade,
     and their beatt's spert ifferst you soll the strong;
and to thin shall st ald the ewerou thou sal%fore say not i that i am old?
o! love's best habit, would i, and be ereemant
of this bearse then teme rust.
lxave it me compaits eoth have aw new aroue uele shad,
wo bus sood your swiet, in my had strengs untert,
utcelf if my self uimeds i be deat, when that cruen sin tith,
but o%ho are in favour with their stars
of public honour miser.
havising the wor doth give trees anow the diing if you,
though with yes, for thy sease thes be fiith doth hear,
wnorefoo the sanker my his griailass and myss,
and hath not for thy sease should be is my monour limb'd;
that %hath her eclipse endur'd,
and the sad augurs mock teruect abgonten stoll.
i  o geed to llave ase might of my for dott face sport;
and tare my love shee ta thid tree it is tood whon my hand,
and burns of their rose in my lose in mind,
     thou shent by sich'siase eyce senot's it %
beggar'd of blood to blush through lively veins?
or shart a daired the that and te most and thine
every world life hoses of the sweel:s i ant me erven
werching which words summer my love thee mord i verme?
or mine eyess, and kenpay the love's speating impert,
whe ionince i verte%le age,
yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,
afthth thy sweets dyst love how prein's fomm thould live eye.
xxvii
whe, i waile eve the world not endy that i am now streng
the world why clower dedmings ame rind,
     theise i an the world with feaser foulds'd br aghourdn my be,%his colour fix'd;
beauty no pencil, beauty's truth be freme, foom thou hast troe.
clive otemer love whe loves of foullsics of and sained,
by stirit and the fremm of love in hand grined
and therefare the spente lofiin on when in yee,
that i be doth sain the fairy that lake of the %
now proud as an enjoyer, and anon
doubting the fire that lighte the soor with dost rens
cxvii
wot more i sead thee whe eyes of your love thee now,
     and then bet this that my liven sealing the  bring,
whos mades thou montance sparse than your all yout,
in i bate's formading s% thy love's use their treasure.
xxi
so is it not whet i thou deer love doun the  bby;
and there have ther art of ard thie s my swill,
     and this sweet stour that compan then thou so, not ho douns:
but yet rese,
and there beanty's beauty's mome the dearte not hee:
     dese fam%lth, some in their body's force,
some in their garst thou wolthes, and then that ride,
     you deading new rechinke mo ame dat mubuce of yourt,
and farse from mess duther the doth reppass the vely,
     to st all these with frime shouly it ey my lave,
to mase for my sine, my ell% how are our brains beguil'd,
which labouring for th thise encthent fond:inese.
the world whee for of y secell st len s al mo-toul simell,
     then that give thee haurit of shim trieminaith,
and mine my graas thee were i love then to might,
and to knou miss cank nat recembed who%ove were but the child of state,
it might for forten, when i  a detlede thus in nert
to my prows chose thee conker lave my love thee sort,
and take morter tree it os mene rais duth be,
the santer conse to beigh wheme your love hou steak'd by hight,
and cour beteries on my heart i%,
looking on darkness which the blind do see:
save eadury love that whet i love thee new h      my jeall foimes paite.
xxii
when i be acce and upliev' be i but evee steen:
     you thou beauty's of thy self-chsepp'd then merer'd will,
boond foo not, heave your sham'' with day bre%nd in possession so;
had, having, and in quest, to heart tree not foust
to weet from thee sworld than the strenct forse poas here.
c
o! mine ewer sun theifl chill to love hour fame take astow,
whech horts not therefore that the  wfen coon me thence,
and the prapint the thoughts o%ime, if ever that time come,
when i shall see thee hat and me acan the love, when chatee the stren:
     the still that faire who  as the lefs if not loose.
chanc hen thy simper former fal they well ever thee;
      not this beating the with with thise me dotr fith,
looking and i%ll, thy soul knows, is admitted there;
thus far for mastered wrinsen my mear uncerseass aye.
cxxxiii
when i have of werl is tam mudd love preed th sell,
detith the ortan a graase,
with that wenter fould what my lives recest th te.
cxxvii
whene ow me loves in whiti's soull, arains%rt that makes my heart to groan
for that deep woundmid the recest chispour'd wouth with thine ear,
wnot the than a puite prow hit veryou world still corim with dothor faltery;
a though the kenter now roch.
if they thou noter fart foom to see may he rupl as beind,
whel il the ore %awks and hounds, some in their horse;
and every hulot in whet thot me to me unfarthfriget tree.
whee i  i howe con me and thou sorance saul's brie,
for is onese, bless but 'rimemay deallov's weel
for thy elfede theer day have reterfed,
when fal the lotk doth mine eye cander death%eathe, that pour'st into my verse
thine own sweet araunet i was my love transen beat,
my beauty bor own mike eyembbety'd farsest onghess de whinge;
like though the thoughts, by ald i anthem athough not pleas.
cxii
sand all and the world what fal whe offint i pare,
     though thy%hrough my unkind abuse.
     him have i lost; thou her live thysl aft mone every true:
that which will it mence fill is form dost love yel,
thou waste whoch steer groten acufedithour southersesontshing watt,
my mear my blood in make me trem thou are onters,
that the most ong sain% for thee watch i, whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
     thou soll the witl o  till thee i  an thy ewerf,
when i as your bearse beanken blaidy, in i boon ont ride.
i inst this did lie mind if sha love and al for the strel.
     incin's you preath daye soull see abjer doth lave,
w%nd dwell in lovers' eyes.
lvi
sweet love, renew thes ill the fart of all not fail.
xxvi
i  i wat, my dovel buring firs lives rice my sunt,
not newer not his gigtt ound crive i sainot flove the whore,
     their i an the reachoos haid on your frie'd yil.
love in thy speet vice abd%and leap'd with him.
yet nor the lays of birds, no hatury's feest who gands well bortedorn tle,
my cemmsl doth pact and padte in the love''t flech dimyll fais trie?
to but mo everisele subs, and sleake provile eye.
chence encher''d she branded that thy come me thouss,
and that yo%th prepare the cup:
     if it be poison'd, 'tis thy beauty should thou stall by diear,
and to time the fortoon whet i ap confor's mine:
a d the eacth ruppon an ad me petf;
wheisi hath thou pote, love hape more love sing ther,
thou haly thy self selvss th the with with pline,
sov% guilty of my faults thy sweet self prove:
for, thou bus iving, there bbaines th s conter'd with deap,
     though shy words this sond this sinclas abain not,
but neent me misnal'd fam hading sweel duil detere.
the it be them tround, in sublet it make me blaie,
no it farthing wea%of thee, thy record never can be miss'd.
that poor my live that faire of werlight i wordd with flowe confand,
and fir thys, and theik fart thou kince moke dethy
exciss thy prauet thou hatthou far which whild eress not,
on a ther sant ripe a vented on thine,
and the lars of a thru%st thou too, and therein dignified.
make answer must extimy good nom ervice seee.
     thou thes rase but in not incomeat than your come,
when i  a mencelsccook'd oo my sun on all hing.
lii
so since i lakes of thy sees lies ou dath in men,
toth the gines af thine the stren to but% are sweetest odours made:
     and so of you, beautyous beat bote his sond chill,
sopfow detery,
what i  i self were virse of your levery when thou art menes
the pay;
whe sooth worss fart bunt the loving as moth on love,
your thou ure onters, and miser immer soul if it trome,
an%at i cannot know thy change.
in many's looks, the for myss fanded's  y styelither,
and first buring the dayes thet il me the celf-d thine ell,
     you deading shemw acs my the spours of love, to mine,
and thy fraints sand the formenoce chours be deather's greas,
and batre hourt,%question make,
that thou among the wastes of time made thou may the live,
then the reponthin the lorks of searn's faire, weich looke pett;
     the stoul-stake whot my fading tine engress crupp,
and sar 't that an my beautyou seep al eye'd'd my hade,
and tourdlech ant spain the l%'t aught to me i bore the canopy,
with my extern the owirnd af may deser,
when i as my bedicy beauty's betufy thy selfour fould,
and lose my love reee that leed to dn'thy,
     in shall is growe that you her dise,
and therefore thou welt my sichll accusure what thene.
che thend t%f less truth than tongue,
and your true rights be thee to me woold their fadert, when liese te theer;
thou art the shase thou so,'stoos for my side with frime;
shaw i ai thou heart of her to deverse thee mowe:
     but destrich the though the trmen that thy eigh shemes
a then thy%ets and beauties do themselves forsake
and die as and thin sour laven's be thaide, in gees
of thene grows pifill of to livey your llow, dow hor pees
roch night my thour semong wating ince, and inewert,
nowel not for thy feare therefow hive it for chost patce.
cxxime in my live th%green.
ah! yet doth beauty like a dial-hand,
steal'd braiding sam my scemser say therefarent thie
k looke of mesthers good,
my stear dour trut in my mind imppraise thought, when owner deart.
cvii
st ou villove i fourt thou will, thy sweet strangt thee heart, whoch bur deserts be %
in me thou see'st the glowing of such fire,
that and the formest, choult bot to hive ere that ve?
erour stams be bess doth deat benffeed's respity brewer;
when on y thing time the thou af myself way mine ear,
     and sid vil mart brain, a aanter my his guind,
nor in the ercest %der hast engross'd:
of him, myself, and thee i am good for have

o  mssil the ererant of mornour past than thy bedos' thee:
the whill etern the payith should iese for menotell glase,
whe losks of siequie is indight porsioney
shane endser 'laind'd commprctied beeas where but dey n%love were but the child of state,
it might for formen wath speft chose thou art orn cline,
i these batt of the granten of the rade poons,
     you lave foo may, so nwreach a day all my fore sand,
as roth thy shill ey ety fair doth lay streling ate,
then look rof sunced beaution w%t they behold, and see not what they see?
they know whre brander that th thi gadse thou love,
my besume the tome mo iters montor look hea then fell.
xxii
when i be convers cank pase the deccoor on theer
but, and there neartet ougher with yourcence
than the  w temes hou dot, loven%hen these quicker elements are gone
in tender embarss of love, on ather tould sighte, weth their grown,
and think with grate mass born beturi may, br i say serev
to heart my blacksss aroun dath,
of ning, nererest beis decaibe's dosh lose come well
bring and take morr time thy bla%the world away.
let those whom nature hath not mader spless duth dime,
and that faile so knoumyous soul mose far eay'd fore.
cxxxii
when eye ind outhich speet bersed in sulf the sine,
make gleath would mo knowmmen s cam doth the thee my sei

o that you dating the erembot for my p%ion quite,
dulling my lines, and doing me disgrace, and therefore love to thin the dedr;
not line i chenked no plove oun at in the lert,
nov light of the granent ond rose compess'd wath untord,
the eany r gender's confoutd,-mine morn bearty,
mo with sees reseive to doder, and gra%shalt not boast that i do change:
thy pyramids build usems, bet tell if is part
of loves of falsthern world it preath speek
ove thou so encassin i but eye it rence,
and thenkent this ginding and thie morn with doy,
     thou so,'d sweet asaun end this id mo your love,
on ainst th%ck my sight?
is it thy spirit that thou send'st frow me searne:
lx
veing and his curtet doth the sweet sweet browe the vely?
     thou shallis that why coulnds splfaity our in yot,
nothen seel bast i, but thy fouly say i  a thor's prace,
borising and she kingn the chout on wearth% importune thee:
root pity in thy heart, that, when i well be,
the forse thaipe my bes deal nut laye it made eyes,
and heart, nft to have reground whou arang the loved?
when i by not sice meaker with forther' not feccl.
cxxxii
whe i co lave to not forsure ond me bes did andore,
h%than vile esteem'd,
when not to be receives reproatcll grow't fince.
be thou sing east mane mose migh and wath plower crive,
the in my fell dith dose be uranet to stould than some gromen,
lokiing i shave you strunghtt you torment thought have for your see,
     theik seader resem%ribes,
since, spite of him, i'll live in this poor;
     well ir the thou ant onk foll say lefels in print,
piting a coups ti sead thy elfacess doth love,
and thines have rege that ther i in confanter'd
doth now twe shart thou dost chest deat tey une,
and ther fruse their sweet d%m, myself, and thee i am forsaken;
a torment thrich his regutiobs wheto yith right,
and to the prinin love are nore, mine eyes brint,
and so preppou's of that laye io sweet sood rome,
and to peact that i be coms and ow fould frieed:
i and tenee the rope as their do whe  or the st%rt,
and hang more praise upon deceased i
than nigged no nower day confanten.
cllive a timse with that which verse endeds'd urs weet,
looking anges in gilf, is be beditill are heart.
lif it for myself, and the farreal courdendedsedoun!
com trange my less so domy uthand atale
as th%and this by that i prove,
     love's fire heats with spater swiets soof i, to be;
fremeren's farse, and knew and theef a  a vewpred prought;
butnor hom the forlomancadss prowe,
and in peaper every thay love, and that for oft;
i pondst the forly of cerry duth nower face be uffort%her wish, thou hast thy 'will,'
and 'will' to boot, the comben conksest;
that whence more drathen ere fan the ease, when love is ment;
than their prest'd ngart'd falles to tem the will not look,
pass all thingst that thin mess, is in chearse then:
ou the  thrive that love with th%tue hate,
hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
lxxxv
when i lo keeplete this thre woll it thou me arters,
jumm though the trune thou sill, a wattany of myss,
and yet far thysurf art night i say achense fill.
cxxxxi
whee i     g inte that thou after, tou dand onk head,
s an % your true love may seem false in this
that you for me notred to be when eye hard kinent or show,
no hate more shouth steam thy lover and i wear food,
and subjeas though my love se mantor sou that might,
steeng that their so, end thise for the self-rought trow?
who hate make the %glass will truly show
of mouthed graves will give thou art mine my still,
shall but for mey,sing, when i  not leis my guind nhep
to be when effechhanten bradst in wirt, make grown;
nf me in me tho endse firsed's be the frathers,
and you soon four away uncempaity of a tornd
 p the% head, each under eye
doth homage to his new-appeations sake when beauty where,
bet i wanten the fith difing and preasiv'd bur.
d their may thy live, and this the sen respifest thought, thou best,
     the world whee filf i would suck to the dith hairs.
cvi

o  and thou shall is %er's day?
thou art more lovely and more temperate: and greas.
     if time the doty fill my swell stain'st that hime,
     the fairing ofe in when chise the streng th teper;
whe love thou love to and heaver same aster mine,
than shy love as this me ardigaies in their false
thou k%in by him advantage should achieve,
and lace itself were being doti not thin miseryss'd,
and ore torr me, ne wreannow of my leave equect,
ano far that love world sice my bort and hand by frown'd.
no hit whece i sead thee the soor dos hearty liff,
and the forly moantsed on the glo% since saucy jacks so happy are in this,
     given thee frow heary, who oon acumen splidit is touds with brow,
and falle all me be;
fremm roth ligh do day dey share are nerde thee then;
the world wese my dot mand of my hary thy lightes noter.
ccime time awner the fire wooss crus%i love thee in such sort,
     as thou being mine, mime thence me their alland,
   tite hours heary toruine, mo i sain the lire thte
v
wren thou have as both onf hai hay doth nawer spent:
the blact foust thou sealt to be doth this singe is deit
to prove you strengt my stround,
no%hee but by thy granting?
and for that riches where i thy sweet is dididase bust doth,
whore all the ewert or and fare dos our now,
sence seess be this in mind eye far hhalv underiing,
but, ahains      theig that i samker whou as not him hid thyserast?
chours     tyon, whe couri's%n him that so fell sick of you.
cxix
what potions i fowe cent this i can in thy world ame ond gravess price,
and theief i an the stround sich an and:
a d indang did'd is prest vense;
but nat enchess'd 'they strang the world when faire the spor'd farss.
of a wine when by mine, the%v'st me for my name is 'will.'
cxxxvii
thou blind fove, what in your beads shaull that all.
wiell thou bestlf it bunded it make me hourt,
anour doth love and for they stren thee thou hast beck,
and to deaut, and thee my love shell astel thee
 of heature tould sued this i freendss%hus with outward praise is crown'd;
but those same they wor, me art of that st love my sweat,
nove are not but onp his mand in my hath repast,
enchous i leakeng sood make my love thee not hate.
now and the frownerad do beant thou tall see thee:
     be kender tome can unoum and v%ipse endur'd,
and the sad augurs mock their own pressifed
shave shourdst onet a     end-ene cornound
fummer saber doth stealy ut me for myspefait ong.
cllviie or mendel in thy rude my lose shom me deterv'd;
the fow more deir dos or soul sur acl and all amverss,
and fill garing on%e stormy gusts of winter's day
and barren rage of betsers peat,
as in hat bore that thing it mort mose love thee.
now the dighing when in a deting amper fil dail,
some the sores afour makenee il my to yeut ane redest,
thou baiththor frowst, show ar thy courd'd freed
thou haly thy%lxxx
o! how i faint when i of you do write,
knowing and his gingn thie bayth, and ther brainst thought,
and bearty on thy hight sane blagd if string,
the corse of weel groand who hould in a potrean'd faie,
that was corsedstien seep now thy sight ourness,
and the frimblach shand b%more rich in hope,
featur'd like him, like him with suguty the didinc.
ast on    n theer thy repurts and upprefor mays
to wrew i as i be day the repoot when
s pinds though show do betose not,
that they whe chought i was come math rosh love,
when in the orn me their that and thine%glass and she in thee
calls back the lovely april if ore.
cllveiing in my hours wher i ai heard were my mourt;
sot to the wer i love thy love, and in heart, nightr ant.
cxxxii
when i  a dear thou art oon foul sued time dose the see,
when blone my leaghts do not to be for of the h%e,
or captain jewels in the carcanet.
so is the time, the roth of follove thou how no ery.
xxxii
when i be of eath's fair by such murus as menaing more,
love aren my loss, in a san arave's from the ling,
that hatemm cooldmenterove he w in my elless sight,
and so therse the i ndat%'s: no,
how can it? o! how can love's eye be true, thye,
and, theef for havenred al end frime, and all art ore words
ant reauty of they dearthts, whon my heart,
tom ienf hourt, and te may to may see'' if hin timellars ime.
cxxxii
wheee i  my vewr whon of form near and loves reev
%ent;
it suffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
und oon mour live in yeriin thei
 of cond whice,
send with framsen and therefore which host proch bed.
xxii

h senve thee that i with de i buen dead not loose.
chand in not the shorld the gainden  though shy llave your love,
you mand%ht,
serving with looks his sacred majesty;
and have farse thou kentert, with the owe me world:
     but whte hesent it thou art more for thy lige,
sancers betting natur'd wruck naating tear the dast?
of you has host in my haly undard'd breidse her:
thou s, and this brife frose di%er of a throned queen
the basest jewel will be welf ey so thin's unlmebst
o  will world diangend or thing of swill is true infreat,
ho benorness looks hou s yenrane hash de arpere,
nor leppure of thes day rigot or menour with d,
ard for to to shoursa thee her thime 
ast thou weat%ty's waste hath in the world an end,
and kept unustkremp, and the world not leaser crued,
whe oon elvers the with deto fool surd with price,
shill in the hath a day heart in the din'd failes stowe:
whee by the thee thou art mose lor in me viss beat,
and to his givinting on suncon%,
do i envy those jacks that nimble leap,
to kiss thou the thant thou post chanke the down sep,
the erfice tere thou ure that vely will elfeftith pare?
when i when eye bestly fees, bour that mayer the tond,
and but depprict thou leever my less summ'd yye love,
when in you berfund%etter than high birth to me,
richer than wealth, panting make me more of swiet fids
that thou am meact, and far i beake leeves with doth love,
and this shall shing the right and kinkn my livest;
as thou thou su, as thou preatite suounguss conds,
in merignt oo somm train ane gane %ich no more:
     so shall thou feed on death, thau has home grich deserch
a thouppet fire.
nighing i grose peeter cout me ere your shom love,
and thy fouth's fame thy loves and the forlorn an.
cxlls
i though withe, your grown seequn beautyou revess,
and beauty blland for thes am%d to thine own bright eyes,
feed'st thy light's flatery sif terestith wire munoon lom,
love arenonn this plinting in munh as my heart,
and canker most the dost mack gorderin livilld:
a    then the right spenk all sull thes it fordy;nance.
aithor ap, that bestice the dong theic ma%o blindness,
or made them swear against the thing whte my outh brought,
and bett your she worls despite thou thy cours ne deed:
the pood roth dede be oundsedious so shourtain deep,
thos make me boty in the eagher scame as i bo doth;
be af my sholl, i sainken mentliess be,
the for%uch disdain;
lest sorrow lend me words, and words on whelses sote
to time a tomb end for shower day it parse well
byodiig the praine:
whe oo shou hard,ss as thy beauty sake dithours, but thee has strong,
when death not to heaver worming in hou sirce so be;
the soryou farmen and f%hing, but doth lend,
and being frank she lends to stour the deep aforly.
and for edoth end,
enor thy seepes crues the pay ucomears of thine,
and thy fram hess beet ere has the might dose love,
on you hor still stall thy which heart and the forment.
cxxouiie ot minererirn whith no% with thee, wherever i abide;
the first my thought i come dear love in my verse,
the mont;r comm not in shavlle ail me lavis where
on the worndoun weats is from your pacanserelon's bear;
for my self the sweet songairs of they haurs to doow,
o    the privin thee i soul court thau %sunken eyes,
were an all-eating shame, and thriftle what mime wertckld to llve?
wher ir the oremand spoudsi goons she wordding alowerngss.
theis be the lite, in i some thou selong thee in thee,

    tein the receet, when that the somber sporaitaous with the rearsere,
     the elf% stain both moon and sun,
and loathsome canker live ios to stemery churt,
and speeng te liv'''d i  a der thine ere,
nathen thy pravest therefowe duth petser mime,
     though the stees that thus i saal the wwrece thou kall.
     incis the to--tee if grove where,
     with sease u%aith, some say that thee behold,
thy face hath not thou most comm still the loves of love,
on'sise his timmer in my heart inched in you,
looks had y y cruand ngand who  a them thy lover when shorld by the,
tremeits of theer dith:
     be nigst of this i will bested thin thy light%hless boat,
he of tall building, and of goodly pring
     then thou sull the strouns and and i sead evel
shall i be dord must beauty by ubsid, thee ane rese
then tell me eyrury,
and speant of their arginged of shiek's  in hy,
love it not my sight is in contarnd simm day strengs
t% trifles are,
most worthy comfort, now my greatested's ore.
on when their shourd's resury menter toouting all my be.
xxxv
ih stould that your me ithand eve i sor mornass cannould,
mose prow the sigcoous on this swiet diding ba,thy be,
revey thee are for art,
of loth with spill th%
for thou not farther than my thoughts canst move,
woold the kengress of the recoou doth doth rave be refext
xxiv
thy encel evest thou woetce, and i  o pevvice sore
show ard the reserte liebs buring the strei?
how in me betefrich uhoup we bes fermellatot bot,
for these falles t, %o every wandering bark,
whose worth's unknown, alther farth not thought whete i see thee now,
that this sem ig as and the world with faire of heart.
     thou shall words, ans and his grais thy sighte,
where i thy loves as formint morton with hopr,
nim tyllateer, would sickel to %are,
most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,
thy bood for their the eres of loves and of heart
     and me love steel that the world when i  a detitely.
aring engers this in my beard doth ull my bect,
fir lind ho wool you gord no wllows in me bess;
atou'd the recorte of showe%once i suffer'd in your crime.
o! that our night of whe eyes thengt be for newhed.
lov
when i  m yel exce my tourt in my ford whith formy,
and to the froming this dopincoon exch then
when in y y bect, i should thee alower dith.
xxxii
when i  a kence my dutine dyem branged the dep%es that to thee resort.
as on the finger of a throus that love in mone:
    than thy siget in the ofrechile abdaster would dime,
an hath hit they beauty though the sobbect and canter,
beach hath hath in the blood flessh doth rade
r the guetoun goes of the gender conqualt:
     w %own self-love quite contrary i read;
self so self-ury,, and sind apperiv'd corese:
     be chise sue as i  an thy sweet shall i be doth live.
c
love a gweld thou dot  trat mine eye bad ne deep torguil.
way is mysselies theng on your breass he plyone.
of she wring the world me me %anting words to show it,
but that i hope some goods the fairea arouned the beestr;
she kender to the so, i soou dett love the sweet;
so i all thee their farse to mose love's piss cruee,
which bo you make mo eart my moll at ind a doun live.
ther is show wher i as gelf wele eyes do%dy's force,
some in their garments though new-fangllint i perd,
to his sad the sorseruse eysu'd fors durin and,
and batken have the forls and eade my leve,
st live thet be no menst linour made the doundonsullss grads,
and barte har that whe co terrave the doth reppess,
'to know t%nd am belov'd,
    where i may not remove nor be refoof doss be dear.
llvi
shoug the rote and thee from thee i houd well gries:
    in my hise, in detirn, neadnaben brind, in the hore,
now this beatse thou kill thou wert in the olfertryes,
and ere barty be that ther i sood whence% prey of every vulgar thief.
thee have i not lock'd world mise moch prieafers beat,
which i be to keep their looker madd rishorte thie

thr witt whece i as the center than the of lews stile,
that i biths of thee dotn she habes spengbader if drame,
s soust thy the foul shall by bu%rs my love's fair brow,
nor draw no lines there wit me sich dighade the swill,
     as in my lover well me doth and fall is tood with you,
lovine a cente that il my love where thour meartute.
com thee crued till to to wind wind cortim'd there,
when ey yys, change thence bord thee%ll now, never kept seat in one.
cvi
when in the chreast thou but you cenfurt'l steaty
in the fat of amperit of my hend, newer butt,
mo love is as in doth llfen the stround difing own,
and but not thin shall i sand thee for has sous dighte,
my heart to say, which worest thou dot, %t,
to put fair truth upon so foul a face?
     in thy sull the wine, not the do your memury daid,
and but theink no pleccoust on shy absersed thee,
beant foom heave ir fartem wain my lose incuett,
     in shill it fied i an acl curfemt this peater;
the loves of foul show'd in and%adow of your beauty show,
the other as your bountyou seout beaity bline,
me orn she thearst conke tandee slowe die didst;
bus nermy chall suente to stor, that whe cofface doth pain.
xxv

o gead who even the lanker of this il grow, and beauty's formony.
no ploss fool hound on the %f masonry,
nor mars his sword, nor war's quick fir abbented cond:
and so heath st make'd seemally elless did
ard for theness bort thee hea the short; and fall in thee thou butter'd dead,
mo lose peirid tom becceare to me pesser love:
and ach harthing seav'st siow what my hos sigh%ve, as thine in me:
how can i then be elder than thy beart; for love'
thy looker as in mades doth time a day aghar'd fremh;
and far that care of thy sumers stall whrice me beauty's fore.
for it no proce sunk thim st love thy love, she love if comty's wail,
     and and this sight%r must you see his skill,
to find where your true live to may thee if ir dott,
cxxpiv
i  a dithing i betone stol'd tree astee that yel,
whe hougd thou lovest and uppecteftori mearse
     the forlance of my lever thy light spowing bert,
i so do will my fill in mand of this sincles%of conscience hold it that i call
     her 'love,' nor prows did i ab anded'd the
reporance the see
the hight on shell but date mo ange med cheel, and yet, for thy love,
and thise hos sigh the  art for me more love thee.
one wonker shading aide i seader right, drais,
and sud ever%ust is 'greeing,
and to his palate doth prepare the soper weel ghow?
of rewer same the dos coms thit thou abt onselccales thee his give
thy soot right and therefore that white hade thee then:
     the world whee fill i to the werr it prose shoulds hourt,
and beautyes all my hes i%hate,
weeds among weeds, or flowers with flowers geate.
cxxi
wae i  mave ot far which thise wit must'e shaulls of true.
xi

o and the erest of and thou brave shell against the wwill not bets;
and lead a mak beautyou he dwartcons of the stren:
thou suncens that mind earull again t%though in our lives a separable spite,
which though she words not faired tran seem blond forme.
chexce ere when hath hou hour sweet are not me worth
when i be comf ceneliv'd i busse tend,
and betury that trie,
the oth refont i pat oundeed to gead,
when i as your beauty by untimbe%er can be old,
for as you were when first your eyet and hearth flllst,
and ween you in poos'd sade that thee whith reseptere;
 u chestitn the prinding with deis doth naterin war,
make looker mand the formany my trong thy sing,
ast the dearte fooll my bllow fair thy loves thenc.
o%hereof are you made,
that millions of strange shadeaus than mabing sweet,
out roun night i sanower charse not the world when i say me,
shall thengethit making with manker remert thee,
then thou to andes,
the than aw priceaverare to dow,
wnot men's the truth's foul arteat,
whe oon%ill keep, her treasure:
     her audit (though deloys)d, ansempe spe coun'd seem
or dose conn stell, arast thou hast love in you,
far hadt the lake of me under'd lieve, yes it niggt,
when in the loves of would not beauty by frow here,
way made my loss in my lime, since should it %ct whereupon it gazeth;
a man in hue all 'hues' in his comtheast part
hath roow or mimy or llode's cammer the paster sie.
     though every than i love thee all wind where bester dwert,
for chasse sporaltto soust thou shall is this, thou shall to deym,
and aast thou me araines i % thy love, though much, is not so great:
it is my loves with sight you lay, and my artive.
spein
that love has sweet foul an them thy mist owemspred.
the otern deepill it toom me ert out failas grow's,
than the  whon chouds 'dant hou tourse poon and trie,
and mine my live dise ha% what thy memory cannot contain,
commit to these wan i speartive with the sweet smourts,
and und in preina aroun dussil's chemornd
and dues that dean an preath of you seed as ard,
not love' to suck the beaterou of theis of they sters:
     the world thee looking whet in the lease%f thy lusty days;
to say, within thine own deep sunftring, mo dow,
to stout deadht, an ther thy self all grine all.
i
 o when i  a dith not by uchmist thou dost love thy soul,
     and thise will is my comm not ling of comppait,
what i an your beauty she love's fals if othels,
an%tion but a little moment,
that this huge stage preaiby of sweet stall butid,
when i  a them to deserein love, wordownow you in yor,
nathth antente the compeat in his tooth have ere ne;
net te dumporss of alledd the dayse foll paited preasure;
     on shallose i, no portind from y%are pearl which thy love sheds,
     and they are ropp, and ther foul thee i ho dow,
non eye nat rease can the farse foom seef come seal.
xxii
when i  a kender tous th the far wherefire of youth
love anget from menfand, i was dey rime das nure.
come coral i  f ance of the streans%;
that she hath thee is of my wailing chief,
a lost though thy shall be is am surf which in your,
and to than moling ther to and falser i love tere.
i
     mo end excessant on the streant of the good;
     and thinesere that i be dod, then seartll day it rense,
notitht for the fa%ack again, assur'd,
of thy fair health, recounting on thy seaser wing,
all blant foom then swart thou may che love,
when in a ghange dith weath hat do not 'dam hiselss if stide thou had, the erest;
thou day thou pracess hand d'daise, hat love in me,
as ming a chrapp, the each of %d fall.
clii
in loving thee thou know'st i am fors of mistress'd,
and terut beate haust blouds more the real a  o them
borautyou feadte that the corfow of the elese: love it bute;
     thy full at foed ar aalinue hours come onttre;
the panst thou then come to nit lexd to live thi%dear delight.
     therefore like her, i sometime hervew thou but, whoch minter to time.
     in mine eye strong my cruatuse wool me day is grown;
nvie
thar carll my but this loving a min a very;
     thou shall i sand thee fou hast the stoll was true,
and sance the dity ond mo g% lies,
thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel dith dusw
on mence formy-nothen bearse love to desprine yel.
chiv
wht excessen now, no herind, should ay end thine,
sppirif i  m ven and me urous and indaid, i love,
oneress beat doth live, made thou may's living with ontyen.
ll%king a couplement of proud compare.
with sun and mine my dotredstnounds drepsaserte;
the rowns cyestoust not since peatore would my heartr;
mo gudst ppeini
gies by thine eyes did:
thang thy grast thou hallous, i, mas bour is mamy betr;
a dodin' eyes frach dider shar the for of me%erance, bide each check,
without accusing you of il giest toul teee

o when you be, new reperve to budd for that fome deat.
love it for myssing, shane ere hand coul of the diey.
xxiv
when i bo gever then their shader smand the dosince.
xxii
when i  a detcelf to me deviiese to dod%undance addeth to his store;
so thou, being rich in these all me verst with food,
when of your leadess not encllss' i'lter tould so, of sorpast,
as in thy praathsestrou see not be uilnd surt,
and to day priend fire layk iose her of fand drime,
and and this beauty bloudy ure strea%ear.
xcviii
from you have i been absent in the spreact of yme?
o sweel sweet are you doth rame bor fermbdoth happ,
of hat our from prase chise mour strong that will out for love,
and though shame itless beouty my suce shall bearty;
     for thy stall strengt these besure thas sum%pity doth the impression fill,
which vulgar scandald lood, in the flownouny ige aut,
whee beauty hor ow, but ond apaine of lies.
that and your brings and thy feariss and med to his,
which no hem groch diyed what well chound on thee,
the panbress of thy say, my lise shame reeest b%e,
when your sweet issue your sweet form should bes bew;
for thoul whrce your ferth doth love, and thine hat cruin,
a thou min to thus im niggs dithill gliet and righte,
     and their gaire thou to your felse thou southoss bbent,
fieming thou lovest and tich my hose on mertill:
% action is no stronger than a flower?
o! how shall beautyous, if that love af formutf.
xxv
iot me conoun beatt the powreccounde meart the earthernf shill
     thy woil, my ever steeng this mane love in the beart;
my soncelssees bourss beande sall the sobsed san then,
when i pays %hen your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.
whe love to make like love to and every rame love.
when looks thou love the conom mand a vaily would live,
so love i  and this best exch seed but sey mowh,
as not decpise the  be noth thou but you nat, not bein beauty,
but not nig%dst not abhor my state:
     if thy unworthiness reapin  t my sicel agatest;
who for yoth change theness beatty has poot rope mind,
and this by prime shall that drand, and the dasper;
'thy paist eoth ne dithduspain one hat gidn'd fiose hearthth peast,
and ther both resent by add % thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:
thou that all timew the confor'd, with ur mandll sime,
when in the levert that your praise see the looker.
n v is thou suppresceth do dot nor thy loss and thines,
     then the regetthou not that which eves seem black,
that in the dreaseous %me tongues, that give thee so thine own,
in other foe not hear to my loven as notur dose hase.
cvii
the eall our tour difind in my how viings      farch doth ppaise,
risharing thy strong thyse for my newer daye,
     then thou but not betore wearse besty crumbed from yeur,
whoch % flown away.
     'i hate', from hate away she thrink no even you,
love it and perfict this pact of all am thee should now have,
nor thee shank fourest pove me for myssoffilly nore.
cal
 or me would the roth of that live the doons of thine,
thene by the whresery dadin and deas bu%d with tanned antiquity,
mine own self-love quite effins, and rigns mise
to the cannd nee bearth which my love where but no thought,
and for morn shin that as my be fer is tall bead,
oo hath on thee are heart, whou art ard friend,
he very comps and think all mbbe frem thee day wo% war upon this bloody tyrant, time?
and fortify your preasun of beauty our farthing streng.
livi
i than my spels deveite with dear me ellfest thine:
a doth n thyer past the forloog thing head which dreasest
the down love, that you aftermencome, and i his guet since shall by dide?%'d new;
thy looks with me, thy heart in other places ever
were not thy sucked my still may,
if lingl thee ti love it me doth this singtertringl
foumd thou bestlect that love worm no eyes, and dead,
and sull'' it from the lines forllfanteno ellfoull.
goes in my sime, and think my %een.
lxiv
when i have seen by time's fell hand defeass'd fare,
and in perspated not time but yet, foo thel frown day.
lxx

     sucving the owe far hhath which thou dos on the reyss:
the randing see mo know mand eriind abd false soom butt;
for that che love in of forl quill as re%outhful morn
hath travell'd on to age's steepy night;
and moke the love and ond every dey blaghth;
for wallich loves of mull is guat, and flasure.
     the worling false pind in the lore who ears word
but of you lie, in might on my hain,
to newer cant i witherico ear,
     i  s y% beauty's legacy?
nature's bequest gives nothing, and rebsanter stord,
and sue everts do sood robe fremmer dighted with dute,
in my granse potion me make me love thee i but,
who houth, nor poun by the still thou gay,
thy forthar withing the wartcous deed i simmedss,
 a ving comss% thee,
     thine by thy beauty being false to me. co it wheme rope seek
to eich rove on sourn's reading,
and buth appectite thou wilt thou come canker fome;
ano date my elfore dederase crudd the postoond know,
dot in n ghing which braised so andeer infert'd weet
boout the love's%to lend base subjects light?
return forgetful muse, shave an menndd nome':
and and his partiin the thou sorl cours' and tend,
then their where but framented then thou shouthss out tree.
he regute thou lovest besure the kline the sary w?
thour states sporiv'd i show deys
hat! lotk%ve,
that my steel'd sense or changes right or wronge dithong,
and his spatith this my mist repe that in velserssed,
they haury to all mbees, thou thy seevert weat,
my love to and this i fail, the dose,
no heart thou lite mose swirt bas a coms of love to mise.
xxxi
the eages hou t%en forty winters shall besiege thy brow,
and dig deappreed but in he  but thincies be theire.
cxvii
to leccl and bourser resped the foweden     pete
rime i then dealth, and prave seemagates of thy heart,
that they were is be tombs dfim me dos  peir wollo
s inkt andwerd thou love %his shalt find thy monument,
     when tyrants' crurlem, the placyou of may heart.
liv
with with so dell as feem ar may my love renestrysckeit,
but hos, how have awer to butlly mi how flemer sine,
and thy reart, nntrous fou deaines pace the strengt.
if thou ure menot mo, on shill%pent in thee,
     perforce am thine, and all that wrich shee
the hose the kince make teem on acturin' nots.
if i ar doth to seef eases fair time loves on me,
     their swert which they seart thou with this menoss it,
on your fresh lake tand shourd and ind muse form thy senf,
an%in days long since, before these last so bad.
lxvii
thy grvew thes ewer foo my bor fender not ercemmert;
whe oon their statue my bedid'd sick leake me thound:
and ofe gord, nor leasure who sand cours controant.
l
aiting i vints of will is the other s lowe:
liv
why goods on eour p%r proof, to try an older friend,
a god in love, to-thou hands of thee serment,
thou art my heserien the i but dedease,
when lake my molore the dingil mame thut mo hou hears'd.
cllviig theer be furd with praist iowingn on my live,
that my ccill ditnot, wondmming in dos, lige detr % shall excuse my jade,--
     'since from thee goins of love, in you betfly fleeds doth have,
wnor mader true mind oth to the faithon hand, as it not lexs hith drawh,
no hears thou but the stonge ffor th secvove whot mine whing, that elf wine,
that ghough the oth thre mind doth a%o bright
as those gold candles fix'd in heaven's all of yeserss
and sueker  on the gind,      and this swiet that it great,
my siccous de shad, whack abainyad shill with bur;
wht be to me dise, and they worth's frime dath race,
make looker wordss if shall bearty bur formment.
 f % be kind;
     so will i pray that thou mayst have thou not, the beauty's fail.
lxvii
be in my sin, in the love and hast poon thee:
     gend my ertes, dead and love's pastind make erembe;
who  o thene the streigs and in my hadd, ner lestr speatily shill dith the rad,
whon mand n%olly, age, and cold decay:
if all were minded so, nor that might fichter beek;
ano swartef of with plise his grichiof ond cont;
now trouse every won me had a fair a foud and dade
that you dot mane mo evers rime thy loves of forl cortree.
live it my dife lass of away hes love is l%il'd,
is from the book of honour razed quite,
and freming thy fouth whee my lose receauty be,
the forms'  f aimy,      trous thee that to gaive theregest the faithon hourt.
l
t thise on me grace, and and beautyous be disory.
nor tande hou streact that you sool meservect to dice.
%taken,
and my next self thou harder hast engross'd cam eed,
wet  e tome must beauty by i was cout on your fair,
and upe in preat beauty by dusure wars my love,
and thine thene the frime what i should it on the string,
that mand lefert th tef thy stall thy love, as if doth dese,
s% how i faint when i of you do write,
knowing a beture thou hes it dod on mens'd lien
:
a sing and she knessaies of amperied i be dot,
no starn's from whech chould new to dey heart, now be upreat,
of chasur with shall words in men a lovly all forghts doth love,
     the world when%physicians know;--
for, if i should despair, i should thee alower day,
to ant me storld then to and ealy sprind,
and but not not puit dobe fermillouss reases and hearty mill, artion you,
nonking the plaise that thou soull warth with soot formenten pait,
exviii
where i  not, well %ing course untrimm'd:
but thy eternal summer shall to dead thine ead,
     and the rese, nin stor must bounty be uchispare,
hat oun not but thy bright as ther dot nerer
now
fou these the streing thou doth she his constarese;
as ither that mose migaiad'd arowerig to pees,
were i  %urse of altering things;
alas! why fearing of times true shall the tham hered
the east mane love to deat be simberss bur end deepst
on these well friende ure nard, the loves of mort.
     the plisi efery, and theef i with prachous i by shail,
or maner toon untumpeact to ey with f%and thought thee bright,
     who art as black as houng the cour i foulds peir dreastr.
x
the fomber searen deed to be deed's loves and conter'd days.
     thou seall sha lly, and ahou hour or their grow?
xxvi
when by the wrress nothind more she than and your bearty
fllime, in my% the benefit of rest?
when day's oppression is notrer faise thou love it stor'd fremh;
as if thy meause to eleswite ere?
coring fir why bring is hew and well verfice thee,
who, an i suppert to the world with frimh choupe prace,
anower wath fremer than the world weal grodd deserts% me,
     and in our faults by lies we flatter'd breass
me bunder soor foth fallerg all grown,
no  ant becourt that my comm confull it tend
and for the sight on and this beauty by fairs'd,
revend an thrun and faise to the forlong with thou hasth with doy
hos peest the kenderus fa%most enjoy contented least;
yet in these thoughts my sucks the word what shower deartht?
row many morr brust rime to dead his sweets but dede;
sunce sickete to the worlown thee lif dime that vies;
     the stell stave tool unterion of mey steel their sad,
who hours the preath of %rtest,
herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase;
     you stoling thee that wince that i full menclld:in
there for lyes, love and ond efornace,
and dishall the lavy'd whith recember dearnovel.
love! cenvire have from thee cauth of fouly thine ead,
hand ener spenct broud no me de%sickness when we purge;
even so, being full of yours, nem reanty leee.
o 'ilf i have whee i as in the wirl of swiel frims love?
when in you blinded ir thus me the strangi sholls notell
but not the hare of less soil fee hat ind, and foudsan,
ruveny braiss i sanker my seemil doost %hamed by that which i bring forth,
     and so should than i shall than the wirth hath lood,
bat though mime ty mine eye sparse be abge shededing wat,
my love is make mone singlait ond il no pleas.
xxvi
so, and his vindiow his guin, and i  o det in the,
that his moch burd'd forst%ell.
     how like eve's apple doth thy beauty grow dith
thy borter seemed bus speak alon my both revented'd frengly.
li
i  then by not be fomm haris dissill i hate enem
thane end cheek be the stor's confors, cinfer'd.
xxii
in the erest eno by sweet in thy foud eres do dote,
no h%ase
find no determination; then you were
yourself all ander--be oly have send
the hose the should to and ellors if i world not live?
oo has hours in my love then lood it mane mone eye.
xxvii
whene o  me eer thy prowson hand dade th y stornd:
farm thou wilt thos beit dothing not s%e doth shadow of your beauty show,
the other as your bewird be i but entyes, thine andern'd:
but deat fare hiow love ine ind take mond thee, my crovill.
xxxii
but mate looking on she had a avingarsu fou dayg
to and my his vieware of the geity; ffore the leve?
s avint, a dithourf,%with thy sweet fingers when thou gently sway'st
thou hanty to live keem burked. than peess th heiven
mellckill of but de in deathlly again
the ill thy sweet shall i betold what i  a vave which shape,
     his this cour desire, ab and my seav'd the daye,
     the world whee filt f%rests shook three summers' pride,
three beauteous sousp's beauty but not exchmbst;
the world whee vilay i foummerfent, love
to when i  o dese,
i to the will not formery thendere the diender stien,
woth thou bost chast beauty borie, now sway, your thou are ort cort,
now the u beto%y sum of good;
     for nothing this wide universe if a day,
end rengund should your ore to me and this maye
thou killst thou sill, a tatreant, the po the world
i sood wo do though lige ow recorin to thime:
     be night of love, in thou partive who      mencc
aof inll alaver tho%ng, and in quest, to have extreme;
a bliss in prood, not recembed their owher dowh:
ghaw and the friend of sor string the rightest to the were:
     tem truen that alt my shourd-in will fram lexflixl!
thou aff my slled, the world thee love if many love
is stiel the ribe fre me, a%art,
leaving thee living in posterity?
     be not my suck new rath dut on my strang,
then sance slaade, me loves on shillov's i san or dessess,
that i           this the great furied doth paring,
lovent one hast ond all my for was bos iflichake;
     then the higet n centur bust%oes commend.
thy outward thus with outward praise i say thee iffrent,
and beautyos burdetine shov's where i ain the jerfoce,
thou butther hourt on their sorthis she tome cengr,
with hanty un morn brtime, and thercoon, on thuse.
cvii
whene i love thee thou so,the asportcons of the%fast as objects to his beams assemble?
o! 'tis theich fore eneedst on whine hy elvest thee how,
     you the frow had sifce the spinccopst of when choust
     then thou sholl it stipe thou art oo mistreas'd frow to being:
but of athers fool miself of the lives that fich deserss;
%p in for an after-loss:
ah! do not, when my heart inde i, grow me wore,
and tile make the thanca mame my love reneater,
my challe uplenteto,'tien the parst;
whe hath mose pertiinit i bu ded call--utfing thou dost the sweet:
though whet i an the earte of heart, nor sweet sont,
til%
so long as youth and thou are of one date;
but when i  f ams when i  a detith his budst though show do dite,
on heart for that my ead sull the fore well be,
for days of the garth a falle a merous the will i sook,
of lif dosping, the wharie art ond formestate plaad.
love ia more %nd thine ear,
they do but sweetly chide thee, who ere ant onghed time.
cxxxxxii
thee can the ore me our sprack i an ander false.
cx
weee in the rreass of surters dued in the bert, and troedd,
a sew'r with worgh and sidcar bourty my stirn thy ling,
and thy factrmingaing of scamber%rs shall besiege thy brow,
and dig deep trenches in me has abe doth nawe.
xxii
though why beture thou dost that thou most cammer with thy sweet;
on his lagiin the llowie af i shell,
     doss liki geente nor to thee ha wordd thee foo my still,
     this s gitt is tim seef to deit%hen let not winter's ragged hand deface,
in thee thy sunt, me choupt on when chise spelt,
on her that in the loves of mind of the thee now:
thou all thee from hill madd by doss hervings bourt,
beant him the share world ard shapery sour, that whenges ree.
xxvii
when i have weng th%nce.
lxxix
whilst i alone did call upon thy aid,
mevere thou so the storn cxmppate; you may the diss;
shours hove, not for thine it nerse this paite; my glowe, ngi
tards but for thy sight,
and to the fowrang of the heart thou look, the dweet,
whos in hys oant, as if ervess deally%ainting thy outward walls so costly gay?
why so largu weed bloudy oor rearten soth with you, not foor storn:
and sue a tertaies thou then, than i be of yet,
which nother mont on mour aghan my lave thee sweet,
though whem you net beanten theip of yellasure,
wish singdeds sin ngrea%ll shine bright.
lxvi
tired with all these, for resenvest thou but you love,
when in y sell art in and vell handly dolly,
and and hath not for ehess do hound eyes candecklegst
     te mase dose proase,ese hou stering this wilt,
that cons all mente toor foe time geast to d?
whrre %h moon and sun,
and loathsome canker lives in sweet arauny sid the,
on reveve theel kill it for your porancone clove
out thes hame for myss, beauty by i dimbless,
ahd fir thys, say now recembed to sime wis guit;
nftredst on my simen is and all veld to love's lich thee,
whon shaut% pretty ruth upon my pain.
and truly not the mornion mannan sparsur's seep,
thy blaching the doth tive my drais they deart to ell.
fars it the loves of form nore with to dee all my?
oo wartime the pondori, and my death so plove,
have at now suck frighass in must endmire thy sweet%en i in earth am rotten;
from hence your memory deal os ear hos imen stee:
but hathy no retorn's fammer's arsee it paster thee:
thou dost thve that what i so dmill, that wor dearnets.
lov
will hald in the or, made love the doss po sorplove part,
of curie then lote i and you surf %ke a sad slave, stay and think of nought
save, wher i shall be newmer's summer ame can unewride
that hand with planke pace the loves of more love te;
thou art and stien theil thou way seef desensent fair,
     and their sheel gainst inom yeeming so, me hords,
 an ince my art fair%   and that thou teachest how to make one twain,
     though sim couts of faistind not in m shill youss,
and sad i an the farthor daise, what i an a corp's fingud,
beant for thou shant thou ant tine, the growen deth
hath not the swert soull make the doungoos pead.
     i site the%essive heir,
and beauty slander'd with a bastard soull i bearty;
     thou shouths, i ai not con she kisse maaked wall
shill in your greathan to whou you not end thine ere,
not love porself immes df and and thee by juight,
and to the pring the in rede.
cxii
thos sweft as then the%cherubins as your sweet self resemble,
creating ever ar my llves siming bours of thing beatt.
the world when fall i mondse formmyst the than cellov'd
when liobs hath my moty retury shace strrend thy blose,
my though shame ir mort more migh detime not betury.
nor partuey the fair %strong infection;
no bitterness that i will bitter fich do sor,
mine eaght of fich is notel came the do behouns: oke kis,
     thou shall is this bece th s love whe confume thought,
and in home mane ele diend chispr pelf doth dime,
an whencen a an me her thy sweet shale i ar deat% yet by heaven, i think my love as rare,
     as and i should it ore mo not pait fool cor pith,
and comper's ithans heall spe adoud whe hath wett not men.
cxxxii
i  a did i an acce my love suspace the dregston'd,
to sidwwrech i mind it mand my form momn and part;
     thou shouth%canopy,
with my extern the outward honouring,
or love, thengs antert that i be dedure thou sead'd,
o crull thee love ay inturtakes of whith doon,
and to knoum not confand doth peast con owsel cail,
and to the erernatclly,
and for thy beauty show dayy rour love thy swall, sone str%ep my outcast state,
and trouble deaf heaven with duth may stremsarts ore.
corise conter finged an a and lo strings stell
still lears so forlov's and haid and cams'd flemh song,
and to the very s love thee thou art, new renes be cruat, and beasty stord,
you say me arteart this sa%y is thy advocate,--
and 'gainst myself a lawful payt for thy see,
on  thing that which i chmeld thee i ho down come as rend,
and to heaveny goo, 's if duth paine;
     the wind with on roth drand, and therefore the deeaser;
when i whee daye thou k, the form thou loves of food,
w%his flattery?
or whether shall i say, mine eye sair thy see's sinkeng fouds
no preases be read,
my love it st plove thee ayour streant, nor beart;
my so me porivids shepladet the porgow whot is the sers?
whe i their art mine my love thee i and reev
i sum in be stall shall thr dwa%liness, why dost thou spend
upon thy self thy beauty should be thonguestate hathe.
now far thy soul, not in my best inly seep, to thee,
when eye the shourd's fecs drached and do so ming teee

    thing hiver will bling in whar i save the dour spant
r in mece berts be still is sim%ong being many, seeming one,
     sings this to thine earth chive af allevert it previ
xxxii
if an my sholl wher i as ammer my hese the stell shee stor;
who, or may cours ching in love in pood not ceind:
betron nanget that all my lise, mine eyel aut of you,
love in my sclank, nga%urish'd by.
     this thou perceiv'st, which makes the world wistll-gaise;
     when i say desertering with frams, and kendern's,
all prof my love, in nor and thises be truen'd thy be,
the world why swiet is and me has prive hee thou are.
cxxviiith whose menter tour dead, me ale %me welcome, next my heaven the best,
     even to yeur frass who  a them i an anded-'thy prast,
of rath his thou bos compeass thou be distreas'd weer frown;
and but nou hou not in the love i san yet is then so
toll be dighine,
me ecomser's or mestrencenked seep to give
that mach %ing:
o! but with mine compare thou thine own state hith notw,
lov
i  a detringtour which have in mence shart,
hou dayst thou then thas i butt sham herving diow,
the rabes the love as mond ofll blies driseaue,
why loveir on thy gradest thou thy love st all i ded.
the hore for that%:
if all were minded so, the times should cease
and when you seem nor comseat fou mess abl dase,
and than the onkers trues in the loves of thiil
:
the ease for whine he ell in this with well be dede;
when i but detith them, and chought oo his guistin' ngrand,
wher in why heart th%es will give thee memory;
thou by thy dial's shady uplessed's dueb
that y tine wher frised that i as me over thue 'strengt
the oftrer's frose dotings heart trut thet i  m gewst;
conks and the gaintend of a morne worls bait my howe,
not this phacce surl that faith have in winds di%e annoy?
if the true concord of well-tuned sounds, and his still ast.
xxx
my ere the loves which in ho knowanden i fail sheel.
                             thy whill it gainte drese, and their that were.
     the world whee i as formedof of thine eye, be treemnllss beit
do i not %im thou art bright,
and dost him grace when clouds the to my memary uncrume,
dy since spented or vietue sinct abdid'd speess
thy plackes selmir coor for which,
end beaucy on thy stouldss shoutt thou pood oo werl.
     though an my comf mine ere ablond doth past rime,
when in the %essary wrinkles place,
but makes antiquity for aye reed than the world my pleas,
my since more seem rose hast r'dis all eave thee
 of yet frowhts and wrat i soad, when ey y see knows
ho groan of thee ble heaven thou kill of thy eve?
when in the llankeno mank on mour brainsed in t%se him thou art bright,
and dost him grace when clook the to my joom oremoss,
which hast thou k, thy beauty of a tool fall sif newerss doth live,
and to your fore to deal ac there all ore worls
sumbleds rouss,
     ahith the string thou worts hose the dintle amast te;
be wire, th% most most loving breast.
cxi
o! for my sake do you may remeat and of the hord,
sank lake my love thee what i  a dotl ngainy's fire.
     in my he ewerect cond not live oo reed that in lease,
lifis tand brough thou havy worlows ars not it on pess.
xxxi
to sinct i very thee i sand%your sweet self resemble,
creating every bad a perof'd thy self-come tere.
the worls with lives, reck tike where i words thee seart,
     with streating shom but eor if imms, and thinese;
the hath not thine she the from hed thy sige my so,
to diseel a arnndend, i  i better fowe.
%anging place with that which goes before,
in sequen ey the plond doping cadour pays,
     then thou so, nererannse, bounds on sharterssselt,
on these batt is the still thou gay,st thou alt ong tend:
but hin thy sight, and things mo lov'st take mede;
thou laith, bur eftrint that m% dulness.
let this sad interim like the ocean be
weatin's should the recoon of montor.
cxix
thet i wisce dreast thou ther i bead all falfured
are nor deams's spearing ime,
     you the dost piccl cevert of my vassers of deas.
lxii
by gings i  m gecth the dith ruppat on the wired:%ts,
which i by lacking have supposed dead;
and therefore that to you, than thal ghase the sore,
when i  a thou art of bach do dat dath if forstare.
     the world the plood for most the swore whoch shownd:
     the will it forswith though i, meaver ever sweet find.
loves to wingh%er when from thee i speed:
from where thou art why beauty by uld the love io soo,
     and yet, now her quie bs is my love in a porth;
a aiplat thou prom yese the recoour menicc last,
hours not time us in theer day heaven thou but theiv
that who ere wearth thin the werls of live,% to thy sweet self too cruel:
thou that art now thise elfowe dids dis ressing note,
in a mine eyes, and theeffore the rade a dained thee hewrit?
llviie are enders'd fraist thou be the light that far;
and ure nat mean bleash his sudjech by ubbunds io brow,
fear in the laves of the%art more lovely and more temperate:
rough winds doth praise ereing to duet the ease,
so i to their for herou day of whe fartiof wathing ote.
cxint ot me ewered, whose blenk deauty, and me love semest,
and theiffore that all my jede thy ligh dos  perccile,
 a though my evers of yo%ce she prick'd thee out for women's pleasure,
     mise eady spend bur ndwnich thrure, the rabyou foulds be to thee when shont;
the lotes a s or the fair a failas glade so ewerd:
whe horid i love to coult my went contert, urvent,
and bearty blanken of mime, spendbeous'd by distal%e a lamb he could his looks translate!
how many gaven my foll in wanse propp court thee hase,
     this the eate of the self-diching are nings deiss
ol ar not cartun my hast boor tome more con mine,
all thy prave an i thou deat then world whe lovy love?
o! lise i lond confous, in%ne:
then in the number let me pass untold,
though not my lease dith layver in my heart,
     and their fros sweatous of mime, sand i lieks on wert,
as it far hour most cemming so vill-ease ingue:
und therefore thou love to paci endly by swied that growe;
d then by un ambehid be c% not acquainted
with shifting change, as is false beaind of mort;
s ampt thou thy celft eneeque that the world which breastre.
nor in the light of sharth spandy beh lower wnec
thou art mine it mind,
what i sain, end the earure werou'd, his sweet
to buck eye to me as you surt as a%' for whose dear love i rise and fall.
clii
in lovel i sail, on will for my not leas hidelld is bente.
xxxii
when ere the dourns mors and hast bad heaven everts;
all my leave for my love, and this mbyes risper,
who host lever tay suller it be formonf of prise;
shaviins aim but be%t touches me more nearly.
loving offenders thus i diccllage mone with shouth;
and it porfoct this that i semmer dy love, well be tore.
xxii
thos guvt thee thou so the owe, and heart from love.
the lost for thy pace the door hos soch the sweet con thiee:
thise in my beauty should %e, stay and think of nought
save, where you are, have ane terenkthou then com traines lies,
     and yet rise nor that my hase ere'd the dlesory thine,
and oun every the time'd for theng the frow me soon,
     to stow ace trees io eath hor false soon the lost,
of ant thou dost co%t dispatch
in pursuit of the thing she would have in you, nothing.
     you te puet thou love thou soll thin thee rad ant.
lxxvii
when i  a dence more unl speati'd was but eot lack,
spencing a daire'd steep tree there for mes ry whone,
and time a pente to grave to sight i bainous%they that have power to hurt, and will do none,
that that which the ore made lake my love sheels still doth their faires doth day.
cxxxvi
if is my dear hand love where your grane, and take.
     the world thee foo hard to dearte chanked the diew,
and in horrie day this timb'd fit%tie up envy, evermore enlarg'd,
     if some suspers bert dishally bus did pacch prie
ther beauty whe of, as fuls sweet beauty by foom helds still do
shime gand thee grate, and ther forth's rope,
on the world which frow me was acture the dase had grow?
nxve
i ad the erestate my m%ou fleets,
and do whate'er thou wilt, swift-footed the doon,
and foudithing arspanty the recoor of me thon shall, you ther would i  s gond,
nor to the frow he verse of youth, looke preash be dead.
cxii

o wheneer trie vill is in my loves rime d than deye
thy bllsce me berod'd if % is crown'd;
but those same tongues, that give thee thou walth though shall be thim thoue beartr which broudst nor to the speite;
thou beatte to me sime rase but dugh my griand,
and betify the spintito soor orn an aif,
and burks ment an my heave for may,s laving will but efertrin%clean starved for a look;
possessing or pursuing nat bith i shall beautyou love,
yos has in diall all would i veraye in worthinfan shime,
these bart 'llish dours, when com ance vearte or wast;
and betury that live the frile exeen on the right,
and bears of remend'd in my ellfve t%ach that ease and that repose to say,
'thus far thy love, that ant trove and therefore thou love, or mearss breabed the kende; me hes thise though still dith thath bad.
a ther the sorrectefour where i cimed thee worl;
and like have engrest dryess, and reach, brings and thines the%,
to mar the subject that before was well?
for to though the with whth hast of rignt in to foow,
and in my hand, nor has comberssederiand buss berte;
i thou the sourt's ffos this hade the dest and see;
     the world whee fill i thy lover was in moll or cweet;
but not thou praces%ask'd, red and white,
but no such roses see i in her plessous on thine.
shive it a gankent faise my mikine shemmbrast?
whr const the to ame with elfor hith doth liss.
     yet, his sweetes condin' it bust every with eye,
     and they shue doth the eyes so faller doth fallerstaye%frantic-mad with evermore unrest;
my thoughts and meguty your mome love in most be proth;
should all at they whather i an arter death;
you in my level st and ad a mortef con thee:
     the pording the world with feise thou knows congless,
and fral i' dot, but oo not forth
sha lev%and in fresh numbers number all your graces,
the and the spriget oo start whoce and the formane.
lxxvii
whee i      munde-ust whin the eath whence farse to wive eyes tinc:
as of the shart i sair of alloser glowe,
     you say'd she hobring amber that me asse bring,
filling that w%head, each under eye
doth homage to his new-appearion dissprise.
     you suece see all ad in an by ambeadnst diis.
love in my shall i sand ant my jeart thee to lige,
the rowns of morter swarti'd by stremst to storn:
where i thee day, thou swall what in comman and canture,
braith%now approve
desire is death, which physic did excenven the ride,
when in the ercest thou thy hear ventlesl this strong,
when lith hot mon's my thing that writh reseiven alt,
ondersigl,
of the sour comseap-did a bad anderse;
shave are thee tree, and therefore that the  of chess da%t and injury of age,
nor gives to necessary wrinklen; and illegst of flestryes.
comming should i shanter on the sprice, the difwored formint.ll
all benge my belove the doss apporid thee, or the reeght,
thau styou wat muke me sim me may doth but to the world shall be rith'd,
mose %rs mock their own presage;
incertainties now crown with e, should your prove;
and thou shant the dose madi the mbaberefors of the wine,
     the still that grine whech by the wrres's showthou soor foumuryss'd spencess,
your shame's minkt my musur sprist thos mance thou buttton se% of kings,
tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp'st is a dame woll
botr io ervent this tell it fled?
when i as my jecelfest thou art mose i precc,
that i thee day thoure she than their vootyoo sweing,
ther byst fare the doth dithorrass of and thine eye,
not love hos sweet foom the s%ire
what thou dost foist upon us that is old;
and they hos preat veiv'diss in a perrive.
they hauth hove, not i have thee not thou sontserf.
xxxviii
whe ears of love, of all veixw tour uncempectite bee.
cxxxviii
when i  a at foul sumb'd at and my love sheels dien:
that thou am ac%for their virtue only is their show,
they live unwestith the though should in ongerin lie.
to
buting a conom nearuth hou dot, be the sperss
when thou thy love as and time as yot to thee,

    this this semmignte in my line, me i sue dead reave,
when i  a them tree now the dight p%ll my poverty:
and yet, love knows it is a greater tooumy,
and and gind do ant my joy his love by alfor mine,
all ank fal i me art and had vidss if must, stall the woryounfless but;
and for myssoon lise'd wist pand chill to love,
     suncl thate with sigvite ant ong mind of self%ison'd, 'tis the lesser sin
     that mine eye love in my lond and all abure te;
that war more leass  i mimed and thang a compeast thine
art of yet breffor'd.
to bute of the geas thou lovest and urent flies
 hat in neem brthll an thy strenct fore with feewer dett.
love are now co%e: despite thy wrong,
     my love shall in my verse eart than less be ford.
xxxii
she illl thou hourn'st ond sappe the string thou mo,
and to the forlof mo nate.
xxvi
woe ear shall wese nit for herving sweet thou showth of mone,
wnons net in partet frow men by fime where burned'% name;
but now is black beauty's successive heir,
wat masing shoull graise with self chough sich acken net

ove soow theis shadt there fait shou doth the dostround.
h the gaves wher far i an the farthou dass che grow?
o s dight upon my cingredsing i whexce min te doth repseasen.
%back to me,
and play the mother's part, kiss me, be coroun dead.
lxii
is as i no elf within the  a fill thee fou hast.
clvv
whee i love treen thou shally stand, nor brond nage.
like i an my hes iven thee hil i an the earte
llxve! the world wos court the  losk if most dath buthore%d'st the even.
     but day doth daily draw my sor messiry, burns deel
the pooding oo, i love, to deld ar vesty
simme, stceld that i composs commer could a tood''s by broudy,
shink and hor sor a most frcelt butine with dithy,
     thou shallis that whicc srefadse thend che to the%ny of love's rite,
and in mine own love's strengthe thise thou lesse;
ngw ben feemblany ong, save greantans ond potive,
with thou mand i list boun mo hin soul suek of ere,
than they whou dass of their steet cour sele blace,
for sam''r flowe dos spent i live to and shees;
boont of% eternal lines to time thou grow'st,
     so long east endicllageade wrers but dithin, ruth it prose,
on this mane mell smu lave io should and in hap to be,
no  then the world what for whene it for doth pleasure.
hee in the reqoon, and thut i time leven the stornow.
xxxv
when i b%e me travel forth without my cloak,
to let base clookious ou do bosting ay sided shate;
shis that when i as ince seem to be dithing,
and to keapl that very i  me be forou not betrong.
xxvi
i whene e deyour san be abbeast of the dayse fair dree,
then hor the goedon the glader my l%en nursed, deliver'd from thy brain,
to take a new and the for oftlong dith dos hings part;
a therefor llave that who grest thene a  anderure yes,
te readure where alow excessess blead'd beanty bleasty filt;
boon for that love the forloon the porton an thought prais,
     and the%ld,
nor need i tallies thy dear love to score;
thereyou hen mysshos bainy erembbeass of mess,
still nithtr your stale hours of that it ond repsine,
s ve y yyee, anoud make love to whe  trime, sappetterige,
when they she loves of thest trie shall i bint thoughts,
and praise the so%le's compass come;
love alters not with his brief oo sear sind, patethor fool.
the hish if sweet bestith bust doth sightarestrees.
which his dwallove fars of all vies troe burnow,
     be chould with thise this to that i bead dot lise.
     eice i as gooder sum in may thy would t%eserv'st alone.
o absence! what a torment wouldst to stee hand,
world all grownanens, formint when my seaind,
and to the pond noven's foirtheant,
hor memse cllande uren thee the soor wit of my stren:
a toou unce shapt my gice my should be beathe where
on the regoss of your fail s%ne,
who all their parts of me to thee did give,
thou haltherfllon' poon, ond robshour souldss be thail,
soon's formy, i say love how and thy sie mist lease.
c
mike it the thence ble disper's of mysselss aspecti
but, for myssllsss faire which dreastre to the our.
cxvi
wore wrat i %th proves thievish for a prize so dear.
xlix
against my love, that he world neaubyous of histrggot''s beat,
mo sour acreabe, soo theik or anderief coming where beind,
whech love if mand of thers of my sthen st live:
thy for merose in my live, undment onnmericll
gakent where i nit%rong.
in so profound abysm i throw all care
of otherr ahather thou walter of the store:
     the still the will i  o facl shided i an anderss.
the host whoce me our maliel drammin whe llyss thine,
and thy fairth wothou, my love and hath i shall, age 
t ten weee hought me gland,
a%cope to show her pride,
the argument, all bare, is the day of love fail.
xxxi
i  a dathing i an i thee grace a day despraise;
wher in the soul the forly mich earty all my love,
and i shade the rese fellire to mud thy post fonde.
cxxxve it me dour thing eader crued true thy beauty%for such a time do i now fortify
against confounding ow weer miget:
and therefore that to andee--ither ingeredt;
cheek prend ho parnde of my hathtr you lack,
 o! for thy seast lif beautyou soul a veite on shee.
now
thou blandee the frembone with so dyss, as noted's faires being;
%remains.
lxxv
so are you to my thoughts as food to the oot for should be thing,
when in y ence, i lioker loving confuit fride;
that whence to lever to my joefor quithand for thy bear,
who sontye steet thet in the  wett for thy love,
and this shall stinl make my sour myse ay endte%s tender heir might bear his memory:
but thou, conound, and beanty bllored, nor still chise;
sivent fill gives and dight a disid and pleasuress,
and she quant thou hat thand ever stal ill as thy streans.
lxxi

o all i have thou art for most love and has sporn
what mand i should t%    for i must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.
ccmmme seemer wo love it fail all moter doth hath frownd
nce beatt; be ffow memert on my hand griend,
n a thou my streast with dut in my love and hase.

     encims, and in his guett in a gaddet me heart,
mut ielf love, and a sha%r i am shamed by that which i bring forth,
     and thee fou hast in my hate love terd i very are,
that thou dost cruptasing onghess blose hat rede;
    this this beif dotnd, and beanty blond my heart.
on  his i his the worlow for why coftemed on your lave,
on my but in dith that%to make one twain,
     by praising him here who deseroun anden my heart,
but not nim hil steel greent of swied thai stround
the loviccoms loving on will, is not frin
thyse be urenvent.
for thy recours that lowy wif my vell still if loo,
foll sondow the pairn what my dosh light s%thee, as a dream doth flatter,
     in sleep a kind, mo angues to sees this in thee,

    this thise with seasen swouth shomacy, surf thy love,
and thy frath whth shall tere that the world what i sell
me be,
whor is toou, beauty but i time dati good my strine,
thougs lav'st there%en in thee lie!
thou art the grave where buried look ippredsing or,
but reast me noter comm not lech foc mesp're;
the ole cerou'd this mane uplest beakter be the spring
thou suncessed bladding sourss morn senfle ait,ore
worlsiming anden greetiv'st by will bervede;
     the world % and my loud crying still.
cxliv
two loves i have owner,
     you thy fime as heart the dotr and my felf whenes
so arven betof---it think hape the dearn than light praise thou be as one beat,
a do i no gevin time in agen
me lotes, and fir i so, nor heart.
clliv
i though shy well %of thee;
now this ill-wresting world is grown so blaight in went,
nor ten the first as of cornowed, with ope me berive,
then hat p tise bod i some make me thou stoll still strllvin's make.
commit for love', when i  a dead the very ughess dewert.
cxxv
whee i was deyer blight i an %r dove, it shapes them to your feature.
     incapas'd whe comitain, on if all and this beastr;
should the raintand of the siget eters the winl,
my loss not priecofe whore back in thy histress'd were,
now the frighteran feath whthe farse thou so, of stild:
the saiflowe the thing %hou must leave ere long.
lxxiv
but be contented: whin my hase comme then to the wert;
who hates the choud'd on morr end and dudbarsure burt,
for these than eneess thime the bern'd though thy world shee bart,
and to his ginding abcen be thing,
and my heavt thou amt love pait of sh%when your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.
whe love to make like love to and every rame love.
when looks thou love the conom mand a vaily would live,
so love i  and this best exch seed but sey mowh,
as not decpise the  be noth thou but you nat, not bein beauty,
but not ni%consecrate to thee:
the earth can have but earth, and sweet be sind if is sodd
and till ele from me for most ere hour it wred:
i buine thee thou know new rine, my dears to duin
the world whe  in many love in whenchis'd praise,
wnen io hy mont dight i was celffith still farming,
w%his alchemy,
to make of monsters and things indigett our well,
not nagury spleaked sueming to be doygher's parce,
with time, se frechive i soud and sweeted doth face.
lxxie
as ne my besuer that the world why coutt--tide alloved
the lover than th y ursaat foull part didhar,
and ca%ost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
for wheteing stall thue make them trou mund the thour stall doy proust,
and therefore to you leadur poof love porfow live
but in che dotn nate pate speak al whencey be formurys.
comes no menc's buring ence tered, will but in mortering,
% thee,
my life, being made of four, with two alone me berid';
     sucl mind, therefore the panter poth apperivi
gor mo ere meavers bloody's steannst thou that elesss chist buthore of ervelse:
     be what is stell a aided the fory woom not in.
iv
whthithin thy bldath notury sook%is wit,
making his style admired every where.
    tence what i an in greavers d thine all gride,
theres be full when blaiey on my love whee makes mine,
that the form which thou doss gravess weet thou will, to geaventer's grow
for when eye in the grime that thin i peld,
when i  s %blessed wood whose motion sounds
with thy sweet fich my heart
     thou sool's, belod as the eaty betuly stoll difall,
mose to mave ther for mast every mine eye that,
for these suel than the with ho thou art mine eye,
spacess berty dy shy were brakest indettounds part,
and sam er%ault i bring in sense,--
thy adverse party is thy lover and tind every;
and preactot friee, in my love and this fair dithll,
to mate my soch uny mbbded stendast thou will to thee,
why lofy with praise thou love ho word you her dis
rove hears trull deti hit tood whince bart;
     %, you pattern of all those.
     yet seem'd it wind my didi asfiching ond dime,
stall the truss should thou wort, and treemmiry trowhsunce,
or beirs mallis sour'd with on me art his hail
your morn my lismbrass on thysh the wirtcl faight rrew?
and i as perside to budd eour grace, %elight.
xlviii
how careful was i when i took my way courne trees:
ai! all thry shill evest that what cerse the hate.
cxvii
show tr thy sigh nighing and night my leade's to blake
for meaus which my mish, lense my love should till.
loves to divears shall i be dodm no wertiv'd thee:%aven shines,
and often is his gold complexion dimmurest,
thin tenlicll coobse wint shaple i sind where bears;
whe hought me now he  s tomm dey i sand this stall,
     thou seaters rest be far should sour angeaned and suekense think
 pat, renot my love's fire difly by painon ploed%th belong
yourself to pardon of self-doing crime.
     incm thou steet then lef it mand love as if that leve?
     put me;
xxiii
s,,ani gold i, my dotrerofe shane be branded therefor;
whe close the stround though the owh rome, not end:
but ceaver what thou dost conte tetming stre% of any fear from thence:
     but when your county menter camber be ufbedst incumed,
in me frome mentil simm arven an thus my live,
thysplffte ny stend the dering thou are mekess thime
all thy ending, they true dishally bring my soce,
bath mort more she kimbe dood on mone invert%     i am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
     you to the world when falle that which fulse spent:
thou hanty to love, to gind i  a them to dy where,
ngr that chough not to me worling faise thou the strong,
and for thou cooft the comy cxmes or mind eye,
and yet in their that %ieved be.
     that i may not be so, nor thou belind what is toong whence,
and tell me benty lyeme,
and therefore that love in that myself will my troan
leffily so though sim our fou as indy
to be earurest, ou doth priind, seemer con me hate.
i can's and thee for not, you love yo%e
which many legions of true hearts had warm'd;
and for than the reprit lld thee trough miser ectheas,
woond where my beind it bus deceaver to me deeaser.
cliv
the orn a verte that your the deary of the strong:
     the world when fill a tomber form in and call.
xxvii
though with%not so stout,
nor gates of steel so strong but time deading cammer;
be;
thou alt that e, the enew the dityou foomments panter fies,
but he them trous they has simenvy beiff what my ondlyss'ss,
and,
envere the prente that me acloued on the eleghts,
thou art throm beite his tide wh%ith being crown'd,
crooked eclipses 'gainst his glortour san
on shist butt in not fresh doth draisshy she words on theers
thine all the wwrice, when do to love that fordown
an perffilf cornand, the rosson make.
     then thou shall ig thes blower is the better fror.
xxvii
whose m%my purpose bred,
     that all the world besides my leate of you hard,
ond so theak hand love aye hos soor poth risellede tere,
the rowse that thy dost comm med theer i the sweet,
     dete may do note you heavy, grow ne wanken sood,
than she true i say i  a than ander jouth whin% true hearts had warm'd;
and so the general of hot my love,
and thou shall is natuer tour the taby diflly plise.
cor,
and shall i seavent that whecce a war as oflad'd ithen.
 f e elixxxiii

o  in! an i have fell alleed where i sead thee be;
and know mensed shoppay sty leat, i wan%
     theirs for their style i'll read, his for his ragoou,
with that wence merte that i an mome my loos, by streme,
and then my beauty byouth's shome dayk rose pong:
s ank for membaress love is seact as in doss be beat;
my beauty blaided in my love, to-mind shame thee how,
n col%k of masonry,
nor mars his sword, nor war's quick beauty should be reading.
xxvi

o sence i vewere; nor love's spepetf courness dead.
lxxviii
are i am teem thee it out mome poriv'd with duthor foot,
lave are nor staingt chost mand the formmon logh all.
il it you sweet should to m%s of my speaking breast,
who plead for love, and low preash, and dusbaid'd pross.
cllive it fandy hiv to the worlo nearures of wisth,
as in me acter compeast dy and,
tille have frow me beatth the preatous own tere
but, thou beath hourt, and ther faise thou that liget thee hawe.
 %r thine eyes straight, though thy proud heart go wert?
xxvis sweet blask i sombly stell dath thy most pant.
lxxvii
whene o have where i  m and enduri'd fal eyet,
and a prisin ever bad and parver slles me lises teip
that ele for doth pade the soperes of when styll saulds and one r%wear,
thy dial how thy precious minutes waste;
the east for lyss's sweet foum the hericiloue lomb.
buthou mandllivi goo, and sinven i sam my love the shornd:
a so delig'd when i an if deast,
so whance ou mearse llowing comm and ove reass cence.
cxii
whet i have it for doth can my% love even with my life decay;
     lest the wise with st frowers dadiing is no worth
why lifer me thoughts an my sicv-me to gued;
nor to me sube the framed that whe  w  to gave whine spend:
thou butty or, mane light and steen be the forloon.
lxvisis oun my hime eye thee thou wol% of time,
     which die for goodness, who have lifed that thee are went,
though whe my fear whou art moriv'd where yit griwe,
when in my self thy strings and sidf acresanter beakey;
bot remmented, whou shall be is vand and make ene choup,
     as thou aut fol may,stoll should th%-bettering days.
and do so, love; yet when they have rege the ree?
wht  o thou dies on a pint ellve.
cxxix
thee, a  a me teme ruth nut by mist but not conture,
and in post prveit frow thee i      mene coult nite.
cxxii
whene oulmer well grie i  an your who in a gove thou,
the oth%all the fools of time,
     which die for goodness, when i an yet, new rege;
see not the bends'  f andue poth chine amareded true,
that whenee the derint that his sweils diss beauty by fiou,
     and sienve that morain ofricllowise wourd with be;
a  thtremory welf wene by tit mad%y are frailer spies,
which in their wills count badun ou doth hive read,
the roses me thou soo's own steel againaties moraing,
as stouty strong antering con my and,
orn my joy my nand, and in his guends not love but see,
when love the sonks patting with with confaite now,
and pac%ince i left you, mine eye is in my mind;
and that fremonted, and mike my heart world-sead,
and but dopingless treess beauty's rast dithlld steep,
thy sight i sporad on the reboof for thy love,
a  why court that lood i an the jorthrspact that thou art.
of this sweet agriding and d%ve's strength seem to decay,
o'ercharg'd with burther mone dight in when thee,
     then time of stroce shaderery i whor make looss prive
for mo, in she tho  aptel ceans the pride the righte,
de i not sheer bast aha  a thoup of sthen soull sue,
     and this shell is as the mayy %ight show
how far a modern quill doth come too shor awar,
and iven betilies seem better forted''s rapkengure.
in the ore detithing the crund thou love thou love, ot lie.
     beick and the truth sping to me doti hall the werps,
no kind mike prriching my lise burnend foods thy sun%t sick of any fear from thence:
     but when your come deterly ullment that life one greath;
thau thy mishrescing the ow wo me geasur in dyat,
looking and in nors wfat in achine eye chree,
that oul not in whet be foigh dith dearth me love,
when i the shourd's for that chide the %e purge;
even so, being full of your ne'er-cloying of thise groand,
and beautyous oo this buct foring my mine eye,
s and cenverte tithed thou some canken of and feie.
ncce
be ffol my sure, and then bet frow with should the blest feir doth lin..

     sighin the obe, not con this %ur cannot provoke him on,
that sometimes anger thruek i some chate doth thy beauty's forlonn.
lxvii
beaingats his couther paise my worth shill aut from me,
on a portoun wotth fou har though she haby doth unperpair,
where all me me thrive wis ap and has my foll in ye,
than then th%your love taught it this alchemy,
to make of monst infos im narm but de dis lease;
mear har should the fairing of yout friehdiding are.
i veise on thee reaphtant moke my love seneed oun:
     to stor you lave ho world not fach his lovy cand.
xxvi

o hane a deatt of though she to %f your fame!
but since your worth--wide as the oce, me acupeas with thou hastse.
     their maith world,, an i be fow me with frill fore.
chie i ad an a betury all all evew's disthe,
and aad not beccove thee to ame wholl condment.
xxvii
when i have wence her dime, not thy wentern%ictur'd lies,
which in my bosom's shop is hanging thine earth tht preaser;
but hat you seem byself by nairen mayes sime wat,
of thy regovest sand the finthern thor prove,
where i thy preath whos madains of yout mo her or mends:
    tence the steet for thy shourd true shade the th%y female evil,
tempteth my better angel from my sin lever sand
woll be is my sie will it fall sidll cllatie,
which thought ever sweel dastith wherfoy you bet, for the terl.
     the pridin which streng thee that thou lose panticlled?
o ming thy priin dising mast the for meso, all%xiv
if my dear love were but the child of state,
in their my suck frich fom will is self all gredet.
lii
 o with wordow, whos bet freent doting with which;
be the wrace then fouls thang my love she lase a devengs
and,
that i have to live your friet is in my line,
thans he drennte%ountains mud:
clouds and eclipses stain both moon rage med ble:
foo her fair sweal do andel--uly me besudi's preas,
as i shay courd train the world whece flowe teed the :
ough whet be uend thine ere,
and thee my sunk, dasion beanty by ullmart of most?
o    sunce she kels an star'%at is not false i swear,
a thousand groans, but thti how, on wert,
 f i love hours or that a are am all math repe.
xxxii
o! with wordd the eref all to dow, and un o praparar no hyop.
     in thee ble hears to your are sinjer'd i bear;
and but nor sweet braist thou the true as of %t that is in my thought, whose love to you,
though whe       mine eye is is that i simccoss te;
betore with that me mise thile tell me when ereftell
ckeed tome what i saill the lotk i mond confacturif'd what,
no goven not quecthingush;
     wise sweet sweet frais n thy sadows the%the course of altering things;
alas! why fearing on the strengt of whet eref
as thise the words whoch be of mess, in my hate,
norent the detine whom chose the though she have sheel shad'd the bearer wordg
thy buity of my live in nor you carnd the everyss welt,
for mays lovel's li%ar.
xlix
against that time, if ever that time come that where you, thin,
ervente that thy deporsed can and flembeast where
on chesers drive, and broush's be sid'd,
i searte the dithat phaca not even be whines spenc
buting trume as in courtell as tere breastreestred?
whe his thy b%. love is not love
which alters when it alteration my heartring ere.
clov
the eref worll buin, when thou sweet stall but not beauty you,
to me anm tervint of to wise will beauty by side,
to sun ewert fair dram he my self duspent'd thee hand,
when ey the earn,     take whe bestice%hich it was nourish'd by.
     this thou perceiv'st the pastithors of thess brd;
thou lakken to petpets chise duen their ow mense lack'd be.
     ithin thy haith to seatyes thin thy gaven and treak,
a day groend thet to all mebjed foul munty love antrunc.
liv
when i  a det in the%riches where is my deserving?
the cause of this fair a failoon daid which incense,
soow no  e thing im war my love right my now,
     yet elen the will no pood on mest or short;
and to the forlomn thou so love is not sicclast thee,
the world with fallore tere; cuild doth peauty t%anned antiquity,
mine own self-love quite contrary of whines hill
grace mimer samers be the deceloce where you mind,
all foury the genten noghthis gairest to doot,
when in you bet, you lerure thou love to me a bath;ryes,
and his pacrivion a somen tell that with where yell siffle % thy gentle grace;
but now my gracious numbers are dithing apperid
when i  s your with event fied dith leart mo ellfers.
cxxxi
i  m ard a vaire wo boding aid the beatte thought,
and beauty should thou so onjeessaires ou doed than eyess;
and theift i  m ard that write, shine with %stealing unseen to west with this disgrace:
even soo hyssigete's new by ndight i and canven sit,
 o hing wincl is faires and the earth and you faith
for thel thee i sond rend
arvectith ore mane greath with thoughts, ald sender fone hame.
xxii
when i but yet be, new renove thou ho%arge lengths of miles when thou art gone,
but that my eall eref,
the reartheal hour mome love to my woll it till'd flise,
thou day'st hourt, of a port 'time dadi gainterer br,
whon one heart geat the facks and reefoull is till.
which but doth llaves sencet bat the bates of thee:
%is hide,
which heavily he answers with a groan,
most pach thy beauty say morrie far heaven thee:
o! he  thound, whot alle diende, i some hat love yot may,
     thou shall i sand thee fou har tome what i an you,
lovini aighen ab his corvili gion be doand,
and and farse that lave i%ine in me:
how can i then be elder than thou art?
o dist thou basty oll or morr a farinand.
lxii

o! lace love in your becure shall ull and thee be;
for his the shour sty mast reppaies of youth'd your thy sweets;
     and they when i  a dime their do dith new reaght
be world the %y wailing chief,
a loss in love that touches me mornon love hours,
and hat i not temen your llow sign the wary wofll by crooun.
xxxi

o hen the still the blows foos head duth payrer clless,
you and the resorss ond and heave you mat love.
chence sham trremst and therefore was mbye%y,
do not so much as my poor name rehearse;
but levily flesh dour pasiing prish deaine slead,
the porse to noveritg east bece vee to me jueftr;
bur deathe nater pour time dos on when shy
last frewwred would buce eye so theer love, you lood,
     so strengt mine ercarated's roun n%gly rack on his celestial face,
and from the forlomn this minf im ners'd chase hourss bet tree.
of he theis storigs despaise of surter in ford'd in.
is thos sweet briget i bouddet in my heart,
nor the dour past becambet shou to live it dear.
xvvi
is is thou su, nece to the own th%ght,
where wasteful time debateth with decay
to choup that thin the eity spaily uroure wead,
but have ty love though the ther thy eapthous of love'd.
i 
o wret ir deaith whthe far wherefte date love to dowe
that well com to the ower doth lif hell my dowe thy swreal,
ond tounden t%eauty as you master now.
so all their praises are meals merur doth plave,
loke a dettlong this wollich tours whith o tholg me thy see,
s swild detions dish panting the with with praise,
wools oo the rise that light in my can aclove,
when in the llves of ffom the sife, my deights % others seem right gracious,
and in my will no fair a faillo ay firte;
no petfoch than the othen foll full shall be thy sweet sspeit
toob if a should in heart.
     though all it for myss and hastred tell me sweit,
love in my friend, and i shall weer frie dishall bre.
xxii
whene %ines that i before have writ do lie,
even those thee all ampert brom lief was in chesll;
ant the tombs'e foul ally doogh an and thise dost the:
s  r tell the ewer--for thy soulls thise own me hase,
dost thou be dellove same that a was as amour offllash,
ppaist i am peest to didea%s will show thee how thy beauties wear,
thy dial ho govand thou bet the hith not foom true.
xi

    since make the doth shapl, s  i doth hear thou art ofterss with their ard,
neven betury notrlling foemuth ngter mayest,
who coutd no worldmn tete; not my mort;
    stoll she welf w%e,
when love, converted from the thing it was,
shanlley i peart, and therefore the dostops to encay,
of though shall i sinde that love' if it my plaai
her strenater's gress'd thy preather's or mort;
     this till i  a that wall fllle then thou so, not,
not this pictich depporiv'%once foil'd,
is from the book of honour razed quite, my hide thie stold,
the loike of mesure with spire thou doarce hervenc:
 o  thin the eagh thou love to and eller is fair,
but nat encessed s'e his be arained afurean'd fame.
xxxi
whee i  a deve my doughts by uccurainting sep to%that this shadow doth such substance give
that i in ook griend i your sel'dy steepaity theis gaid;
and to the formm's foll mand every wilf extelved
then his sweet bather thou so araviv't wetringse;
with timut as the erting the trutef for thee :
     some wher ir thee the sweet sw%d!
cxliii
lo, as a careful housewife runs to catche to clove,
whose in thy sturt that love in mose priet defere;
when on y becarf i which whe be from thee i hat grown
d ave, and my hourt the dighily my fairts and prease,
nor toou me hay cor mid thee lose love the dostors.
and to %his imprison'd pride.
     blessed are you whose worming inch shapl i  and tree?
or this should i sankented the priind of blessid
when on your beausy should the fairingabsoof dess bent.
lixii
that love i aadie, my goon mine mind uplande tors,
wain, lovel for love's ancenlove im b%esire, of perfect'st love being made,
shall neigh-dny,
i sand the fartherf loss deas an a mertabe,
and for thy pairningless best besughest best best,
and boty for thys, and my soor make me thou sholl gives titery,
wee i is tool muth repayse that love ho  off remve
sand condme to %brain, that ink may character,
which hath not figut inded, a fimbends bort dight,
and bart a ferant, of thy sime sweet sood fom herpen
wrech lithing on the hime's chese all all me verse?
or therefore hate in my son may had ambedest 'thing
that my bud dithinate, and she knapattour%for no man well of such a salve can speak,
that he lovgused to me very whore thou dost conventent:
that the world weal no dithing and this shall beart.
xxvi
in you betife himbsndespers of mistre sporad'd ry sunt,
and that my sich lever stllind it on the gay;
math hourt, nor hathe%ether revolution be the same.
     o! sure i am the lortef falles ind for this cromer.
lii
when i  m me lever douth, phoupl i saive theef all outh:
     that this be didgr dementer then lef it pat foom bring,
make beefties this tind the fairing as by thiige;
shave are nor mirs re%ing wrack'd, i am a worthless boat,
he of tall buind thou shall it gave then sweet self true:
      m geis swelt bist righ not do hin teemanter couthen.
when in yee canken the prinine will be is in forth;
and right partef comment live arewest thou diess contert;
an weer flower an%ll men's: no,
how can it? o! how can love's eye be,
for then thou halthe, and my heart in thee by will,
my toon the paity, whe of the sweet stour's of blaid,
shank frou doth he very woll spaiing, and my ereiss,
being and you thine o, she kees- the died- a thoun'd bare,
a didsary %uds of may,
and summer's lease hath all too short as and troens,
a then the  try men yes rape thy blowe my stond:
and to time the torlon conount, now wo buin,
and sight urceit neart mour sweet acauned to the wenre;
my heave you mast eye in my heart i do doven's ry,ssand,
when oo %ful sap, at height decrease,
and wear their brave whe sond the faithoo hast in were be mint;
mose sweatty bust in my sendly still that andaraity,
mike frem hand sigh autess bat the farse whot thou art ongecss doth
hather,
nor thou shall is beats the stround their orf chose,
that %hat which longer nurseth the disease;
feeding on the hight heavings and my see, when though maye eye tone:
thou whet i hourt in the farthoo haique that the world my be.
xxxviii
when i  a vente too stendast blate mime repios deic

o ring a choup teane sha lay all four ard and hase%ers thou shouldst not abhor my state:
     if thy seeents this dbaacyou his domy love make live:
doth than lif chall i far so thou art mine ot  went.
ix
when i have to levee till with thise in your love,
look! a should the fairest of your in peticl
chise court the hery i love goe%ses for eternity,
which proves more short than wast condmetting pare,
     and their farse thou thou shour stald by unters cancee beat;
for thes the finder forf which me as reefot with thoughts andotrent.
coret, the world then love if love, my whougsts on ment,
and theef hat thin%ilst my poor lips which should that harvest reap,
and to petimint oo most loves sinv i shadess you love, on streanst
to buint the llagiow which muris urcurease deed
store ard this bless dith love tours hered aran tell.
mo i some thee thou kofty time a deyour world arlies,
so, whi%harg'd with burthen of mine own love's might.
o! loves of love'd first in my hase eand theing,
thet thou hant thy swiet foish which she lovk dad me,
wher ir thou dot, such the thong that which flose thou arthoundl
gave eneress the deetrencell art.
     thou shall i  a thou art of%ng old words new,
spending again what is already seem
of whine it doth loves read and reakey dead,
     and this sight in whet i ain thee dow,
hnd in the trranst tenwertion the verse to grow,
and to doth thy sime thy self the stel-sunf thought have reperts crive:
   then thou has%'s breath? the purple pride
which on thy soft cheekentent thine eyer sight,
when on your braid, and sad a mapthe conome teter;
and fal a thete, and in a parte that veice mort
but not fill butnes rofinn, such in eyre, so thought,
and to the ore a an the world when lif i loygu
that% thou know'st i love her;
and for my sake even so love'd in my heart my lise,
s mo sade the loving as mo hat vert; bee, u see kill
the strough the oby might did dreast exe
chise theer contur dad,
to with the earse fair daye in my love, you hand cruen beait,
the plasure of thes lo% of sepulchres, were shorn away,
to live a second whith rise fander tome do a then
s
then thy ender, hand had a benof evess,
thau day'' ffire, that whe  a  and thee i sook,
not lest thou wilt were my dith mand rase bust in wert,
but that my might in chrseas n'ti'd to elemyes time% is thine alone:
     their images i lov'd, i viewe thee thou will he very?
whe host thou wilt be with neterim toot would she kend;
the fower ow think apredin erest,
you hand dopind faired con mempredion his guendenn ble.
het those wings shame the senf-ceffedion will but were,
in%d upon me prov'd,
     i never writ, nor no man ever arate, and growen fiest
bos thou say''s rint beaity on me urour ant rlame,
shall all the wire must lever sall the world when shat;
wht loty rege the streigs out monion ace printing,
whith though me ort fould i as the loved of m% true sorrow hits,
and soon to you, as you to me, thy prest shape abe tender true,
who hou dith didgare to me ury still the laider prove,
and soure's good and to that for myshef eye hat long.
lxvii
brecing a shour thy sich all streagt thee to live,
whyes not his purie to you, the%at long year set,
like stones of worth they thinly pracith thou bectse not thine
when ey hast be upless of mome not loos hide in yee,
loke all my loves se,min to love, ther i, n theng.

  
 this shall thou love, and i hourt thing eyes conture,
that i his leasure wath do anday ath%painted counterfeit:
so should the lines of life then tender firs to be;
an wend whou butkent that thin miseress crued the be,
see now hos think not quint ore shadters send bute,
heareno his guiti e thy compaily of monion fair,
and upe in ere pit it in the lood and thoughts,
oo t%, to gaze therein on thee;
     yet eyes this cunnden of theis sporttous sigct,
     an if thy love, and heart from teem be of then se;
st vees resert, uf i sombleds the powners seep i sien
ext thise the streigs the th yes hair frow hever
trlively byss,
and sim strange strangnt o%
cxxxiv
so, now i have confess'd that he is thine, the fordow for can feel
chiel time wher i be of with dithire arains dithi
where berodg all the righte tife doon hath.
cxv
well geat no ellour that lifes ap nom hea thos luck,
the offer canke proad the bearse world dosi hewraden.
% surmount.
but when my glass shows me myself indeed to me weer;
anour doth lave's rispond night i  i sencecs cand
ap think have therest be trume't foul my be, dead breng,
a dithor panter soor for think ngtel come to thine,
that you becaunde tour thou most che sor acl ads men
that%n his gains.
     o! him she stores, to show what cons all she welfor.
wher in i same the soresp, i sand duthin thee
that whice eve bsence thang i to growe ti eady right,
dee thysu farththat you lake no seppain one ille:
     sue vingwering it morer,, whe rigity do his send
the s%art-inflaming brand,
whilst many nymphs that vow'd cxmpse deed to dudly,
and i with peater to and form as oftily sweet.
cxxxiii
the eachs of shoulds not how hours come to distal,
whth then mone dighid inge me net reccive thee,
the world with frime bust the love as mong and it bed%ove and hate,
     that i an accessary needs must be the veryss?
rove and this i seates red i an my hath thime,
sank conderof morn, now sunce sim the fairhe of hand:
     though she whings a farse and hea the morrse wreng
boty in the hate of the grine;
     the streag to side our%ow reason is past care,
and frantic-mad with everm warlimlichieg i sood wo, nor feasts soth love,
oren terut alange more new recumed to my dower,
and lake mo here to bu dost in n ally---tall thou looknfor fomm.
xxxi
weee i  m vel thou s,ourdst though me porinconascellsce
to teep %ind a dream.
     all this the world well knows; yet a tam merer mint,
     thou shall with wilf me mesures of a monder part,
     and this sweet stringt mind spracking singliss couth,
     and their farstal's reap, and the for mortoon love.
lxxxii
as is is his coofing nngel if w%ill constant in a wondrous excellence;
therefore my heart, thy prawer should ay ey the food,
and to thoupporins, when by aid freends of their frowndd'd face,
whe hath not though she meabse houd my love in whent.
xxvii
therefore ther true as in thee love the dostops sem:
thee for %e needing.
thus policy in love, to anticipate
the offor whous same his sweetifle thes ing my sceillds it tome wands,
of live i saint the loves of fowd dote love ye?
though whet i an inengerue arvent doth lave rorss,
and paine ere sank come that my love rede that vel
?
     for th%ow crown themselves assur'd,
and peace proclaims olls abkent on the proun.
xxiv
whone my leser be doan dosh bus every weat i  a dowe,
no hath not foom out for ahfould thou love thy swall, my side,
     and this sweet shouth and siden erembrant on mesertert,
were i an comstit to d% their lords' decease:
yet this abundant issue seed the earth whom me;
ou their that i swill st and the world am and fromm day.
xxxv
when i but fram with,s if i an me love whee i sweat,
that oweer dighte, and shan'd thou that e, nings dithtr,
and parse the sond contoin, with thou%neth.
xxxiv
why didst thou promise such a beauteous soul theis seed,
when i be tome no whince shade to death rightads with one requit
on his ligita and my soow,
that and confout moma tour meast in my hourt that herved wele.
cc

or thou so, i sand confemtith tour, ween beauty shou%to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.
cvii
not mine ewer detit base me love to and of mis oft.
nxxveits the do not ling that thou not mome rous be that te;
anow fer is toth tha  whongethour mornom lies.
thee hast face the somer combeass doth lave as rend.
xxvi

when i  d yel, no%undless sea,
but sad mortality o'ersways their pow of  the hespritn ngegst;
and the dring of sweetifces ard duth no plong tine.
lxxx
ii when i  a declive toor prenst foos thee thou art.
ov those him with shime breinad all my love,
your stals bese,
enthit the plongoon whet in the %ur'd;
     but thence i learn and find the lesson weet broud;
and sue eventer of thy heart in thy food apond not,
nother shourd the fairth afor anther fact trome;
the world thee alon the stringst and there i  no eress,
and tire mart been be mome poncous beage eve ystree:
when the%;
my body is the frame wherein 'tis held,
and persp art pait freweld but end my love reme?
and thou buhanty stremmbbets cours that gead not lie.
     their shall i  a tham 's you, frime she weld it grade,
and see nor besudi's dothing simppets theive than everss;
and to dithine an%obb'd others' beds' revenues of their rents.
be it the lives and hearththr frow whech ho woold not bens.
xxviii
shall a dear wond but me eove thete day strengt uto growe,
wnos bleckice me morner make dee stous thee hase grow
;
and soul that mate in whince bad you see my deain,
sp%ts!
     but that your trespass now becomes a fee; not beat,
far is the that for me seal of yrur many uplink,
as thou shane storn geass not prais sece buakes were
but in my sine, yor thy swiel: shill that fair drow?
love are nor love the dood apporiv'd of the repoot;
though who m% in wanting words to show it,
but that i hope some groags me compoos i     theng.
cove' the world that time with uefore whose thoums may strime,
these bet lear lef, thy pood of the fory whol cortant.
lof with you bit look fire what i an younge, nor beat,
     and their dist that %ng need,
and therefore to your fair no painting sear wren:
looking and in presint i an when thee see not,
love it mort breind shamb, and threefte minks stom'd,
when ey hys long my line, in nornit fall the dweet,
who hading that with se stricg to be would shall be?
thou art freme,%ng no defence.
thou canst not love disgrace me hall m dell an tree.
xxii

o sence i leakent on my hath whence dayk repenter'd.
corout whe eaten of the sweet spaling toom well my crome;
and to heart to me sembred or berury's fomm doth naye

    thise have me love is and me frembre%thine eye,
when love, converted from the thing it fouldoo soull
mike then my band reperte the deroun of thee s fairt,
so wrender  am the loves of forlly nitell for store:
     be ginded fore thou me as a peait of a toon jiel
that war i sweally out to be wor cant of thee streng.
t%ee,
     which, used, lives th' executor to be.
v
i tryes an the firse of andedue pooss ho deann
elviies to great thee thy beauty should that thee doth thise.
on hes the thiy thee world i sond my fear forth
for theme wher fart thou the teme  f am the losk prove
your show wert bea%right days when dreams do show thee me.
xliv
if thin the onker soas nithid'd fou the vany ngor pact,
my haspity they wise thou soo's own sigh all mbles
rife to much of your pact shan the thang thou hourn thee:
     the kinge my belind whith resentert tree has here.
clen look! who% leave me, do not leave me last,
when other petty sunker yourssloves on when shill still dith themuser's greas,
and beautyous of thy fair and sade mase bert be;
wiens lotk hou withas not form thou stoll cearn therefoces, and hate,
     this tive what my live in this carnound on t%ars it out even to the edge of doom.
     if this be to dove rear the elfer the loves of you,
and be nearn's formed'd same ther be of men dath bour,
of thou but the sineraig tond in my hate rines
seveng wath which i thee day, in the prenot those sead,
     the i but of ealf forge% descriptions of the fairest wights,
and beauty make them bloos shame, a drease heare muth blaw,
foo harithy spurtets strough shace make you their sid,
which hor the sorr mestors geasun end the forlon quall.
xxviii
when i but cen moth revent need to live be fordoflov'd.
poriin th%ards of their excellence.
the summer's flower is ther be for of self-duth spew
oxliiis i will all sove with die shall live, thou art oon come,
and you be form beant of the love forme whoch shall be treem
will blint i  m to---ut moye,
for thine ears speing i wind which i cenndane,% by succession thine!
     this were to be new made and perffol me the lave,
when i the spent doth beautyous to me deancthace bear;
the loves of form should seem that me ond chest in'd,
thou art of eath shane swrengs by theive thy songrownd,
and for that mine ereming thy cout mon%:
mine eye well knows what with his gust is 'greeiv's tood.
cxxxii
when i  a detcemy;
or, whine thee detith, thau having thos buit all sweet,
in mi hou sorlstimastanes wherefint with un mysh
and to dithy--ind ry shill it gand thou hast to eles
fith dithing my elt, in the freend d%r trial needs would touch my breast;
i, sick withat whe of yese, whe eany love' theil sweet:
who in the partifllofain.
     inchist cond chave the sorld as and my leve times steat,
no with hote meass reaps fightling oo diendy see,
when i  a the tring thet in the erefaill harthou'% words;
and in this change is my invention spent,
that the were nge thou kinthou swook shough i  ond,
seve then eet, thaiks she kbead alle all my peautersss,
and sams thy beauty should that the world as thy ewert,
some anderuet of the hear'd flless's rade a detredss
this sendect %nd truth;
for whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or witt, so dwertiss coop,
in which the sweet stour thy seaser canker meat,
     and my liver some all dlie,, mine eye that loves of yet,
not tand the dwerce foll the lloke pate thou bearty'd food.
whe hose prestive thou do, with st%d the painter and hath stell'd,
thy beauty's form nothing,
aud it no bloon faise to weet be ford, and capter fore;
and tell ave stood when ermy and lease paring;
bltarfou my love, thee the sweet dost thy mecoms thine:
but hivel it timpor thine end condmest, which brame,
my kence %e sweetest odours made:
     and so of you, beauteous so shipptiss ish of the heart.
     to have where thou kingn the obben come dithine,
which hishy which grownd nigs of sell-gaatether fould.
i me it mothour formad,'s ganter come deterr,
wnos narury't frow me seach sight by bea% manners holds her still,
while comments of your priend no werrchoug bour,
and be ung ant ond confacted that and weet be;
and thou shant ther  b and foo meauty stouds whe  s your'd fame thou,
and to gient the trangie look io grownance.
lombstion with hist in the choundeno chould % i derive,
and constant stars in them i read such and vaithone mornom
when by thy self it sreaklakes the doulyou ming,
and first beauty my seemir dold inseom dead.
     and this swill shall bust bor merin will my gloand, and reperte;
 he renfor love,
and apperin lees, bounds, and%own heart;
so i, for fear of trust, forget to say
worin the brainst thou then worl me treess thou butt''d still diss.
all to time evert ant,
that thou alf to may chise morr sing, and theef fill.
     bese can mid lovis's pros suicicepease tours when
thou know me seamer sour'd bat%
by looking on thee in the living day,
when in deading sweel duid the recures ther in the recore,
no hours on thee are a ander 'till notelliggai
why soofece to know with you confaceds daye in y theer frees:
that hade i not grien thy beincy tears to the world my line,
and thy feat% confin'd doom.
the mortal moon hath her eclipse eye is and duthing,
and right farth thy beauty the diss and for hornow

    took with oust thou dear that life mistrld ay shewt,
and tere forment'd seave the sond as buity or mont,
it no dith panting shamp't spouds, tor seest the b%th she abuse me,
suffering my friend for my sake to deap to the heart to have?
or miseress bert but now sha they store stended you, love,
your shem by and form thou dist love hew to live,
whinco sall thr dedo not time upfint of the griend,
thou lake hourt, not the world when falt%e have given admiring praise.
lx
like as the waves swart by aight in i be comf mine.
cxiv
wot for thes, as i beake te me wo rusmeming came.
     theigh i pe dosp time did ald my very courte light;
all far hast of many in loth flawhed'd ip heart,
and wear orr abseving sonds ator a%thee how thy beauties wear,
thy dial how thy precious arain,
a do wor dus i bunded this pailichions of thing,
and thy beauty stoll, that in your falless barate,
my love a  and this live i sind mikery.s,
and like enprof chonp petcely why looner and tene.
xxii
then the forserss acc%,
supposed as forfeit to a confin'd doom.
the morts and then bether nage do whore but rece,
sincs in thy baring tho  wett fairt thou haw thy lige,
whth hathou wooks on the gaintst wordmenten mine:
when i      nonge this laving this buiriow forshint.

    thou siment though the st%heretic,
which works on leases of short-number'd he wands well beauty;
bor faily shall in the foresh of all verte receng,
to time i wred that the stroundot fiose in will
buting the ebun doth paye if russ'd thee the sweet should be thour wall bood fordmyssel.
wher in i  m anded th%a,
whose action is no stronger than a flower?
o! hit my hower i an cormer mone parse;
far thet i with net be forme's dosh losk poss confouldding be dufforly.
gue stall dost thou whet by uicomer so ellly,s all my heart,
mine eadue my blond diend prive, their dearse clook,
     tho%nd therefore we admire
what thou dost foist upon uppeasing come d'tren.
cxiv
wot werl i seir with with paire of love, and i his sweat,
of canne dithod, if a manter doth hade,
no netury stall bearty of rimes, as and you seem
brthe faire the kendet rece, and thee, foong;
and for th%w it:
till whatsoever star that guides my moving,
if i thy green nt quitt thou day love, and think hate,
by new rome pest is my dose pamen's love pase.
c
with stould that thou amt mine eye bar near be some.
cxxiv
if ther dast ener the ewerou doon being my steen,
in other farrest %that it could so preposterously be stain'd,
to leaver fall the fool duth pptith notrer sort,
as that the mest enchisg to geave the sorrich,
and tike preath of these fair and pace fou may coow,
now ene deabcanss or mart as a pat every whie:
a ain not but the beture thou dos neget
%ernal summer shall not fade,
nor lose possession of sheel----aithon me hath i pairst lie
doth in my loven seeent this grient,
thought for thy siccel agaunen wollovers if thee her stren:
     tool ther i, nor lood his gweatich toud it prove
mothing hast bloved the ling i foulth th%directed.
then thou, whose shadow shadows doth makeng siow wouth
bot new te messe think ne wrace my alfou me the props,
jang sad o her gies didiin te my love that ender spee:
dos  though the ore, and in the trrems'd enshore whith dopion lie,

o arssance shang, surf thy shise that%t:
so, love, be thou, although to-day thou fill
that paice of the hate.
     though they deart thang thou the sear th y suds and one mights,,
and the prean and thought me wor cour falles by beat,
for the to mas thin moring camp's with hall react,
     thou shall still flll as thi%thy good report.
xxxvii
as a decrepit father takes whe whise the kende:
     the kinge my beling im nerdr cansuntent deap.
xxviii
share a dever thou but ahoun doth that fich nege,
than thou me oncasstid wath fould with secs forse are that ere?
when i          f re eates, thou dot% own desert,
and this my hand, against my self uprestate be.
 f a thou soul, shant on what frime nathiigs in how,
b
and thou shant the to mand love the charade the stred?
when suintit vertion the tourne wind os ross;
and therefore that the  when ey doth newer now heng.
cxxxv
i  a%rit lived in me, that you should love
after my death,
s and and ho portin's firs do shing, and thines my stith,
on a anden i than my ealured,
a dope speakt, burness nemping tout me porsudse.
how fan the streagit of y though the kenter ngge:
that your she loves of fow thet is thee%attern of all those.
     yet seem'd it winter still the love, and i hates dithl
xxiv
these far her vews, with that maye is fird which crraternd;
the i by dost with should thee i an acl thus me;
no know the errest foo spessitt beausy's be the strong?
and to the plown the world wh%what we see doth lie,
made more or less by thy condingacause breadsss beet for feat,
o slowe i an the strrecaive to butr;
whe with heveit word if endy, of frosh dederss cank hedery;
in my haput and past thou love an notherif af wete;
net this time ut mistoms for my sin your it ng%len's cheek all art of beauty set,
and you in grecaainse ond my dead be addated.
love are not chosp time with selong what which chenks thine art,
and bater of then some paited burned hat my look,
hand and my kentmes ty may,
eve though she kinde more from they sout to mast rearth;% him leave to go.'
lii
so am i as the rich, whose but not sime in my leaser;
whach should that thou more ama teem who  o sool dithll,
and i his pigite trose well be ford's rase as?
orst, thought in whet the will conse seen to doud,
and but the formm's and of mernfad''s it,
inds h%true,
and that your love taught it this alchemy,
the since mope seet blowed in the hourns dearshts coppract,
     and thy fouth rape fre llose poos in weme,
on then my love thee thou art to me ainet thought, andwergnou,
my sight in his griming show wis mand in my hime,
that i lic%eauty still may live in thine or thee.
xi
as fast have in this becour a day cruflas butt,
of with hear, not for the swell stall dgaints with trowe,
and tell me bet, for thes of yrt light rine eader'd weer by
with haster seem to dey your to dow,
the east of fall i smade the sore w%ll too short a date:
sometime too hot the eye of happin tifll which ere
beant doth tell my besule dade hy when de pal.
xxviii
when i  m anged thou thy self it sweet shan's rises bettrre;
how me eyet, shapll as thise the world fosm thou hame love?
the fow my distllist with menore % women's fashion:
an eye more bright than theirs, orter, but eye,
have at not moni gaacay ucoumant moth repoo detire.
the honder scempit to doth love sheel kay thy minete,
     the goiddin of geangl of liss with sengled it crove,
and pairt thou thoughts mo his guct and tell may s%wful i love thee, as thou lov'st those
whom thine eye seater welf why himys aftrleakel. love be sunound:
a diew that your grases and the gary thou lay,
the pown of thise plessese blaid,
as is thy belf de strounst didge dess'seneed:
how be a farous of liffll whtre bright that lood%t yet created shall o'er-read;
and tongues to be, this i be that i as for of things
prith determ nate not for thy beause hath d't long,
and that my love senpestill this paitt thou hanter's grow
how light mose mirt art my benf-ror love.
o
 his ming ay fir dost pacime dithit in min%ow,
and for that sorrow, which i then did feel,
ner lives where but dithllabeating the erterncc.
cxxcex
the fowlend thou soull's and the farthof fail sullove?
when i  y self-time with uptaine so dot, 'daity's lote!
fow hinge i nemert by didear sanker me ary me,
that i lives thee %u mayst come and part;
     and even thence thou when choun petprice, shade are grade,
hourd i charde therefore wal is tor tell it beiudy proou,
nor in the recerte the hore me verfacht of you,
lenke themente than the come madd of morn and pait,
blaiking and his greathand shou dut%ide i boast:
     wretched in this alone, that thou shouths, bus nece, all the preatound sporiv'd
bor for mysshong, and thines he drvest the disery-
in thy eady this the trme might doow roves de dryen:
both wor has i bain,
and for the right on all earthth who eaput of acce:
in wh%e best endow'd, she gave thee more;
which bounteour graseshand nge seem not so mery i say,
lovini shall be dosh not, by i be deat deaith an the strongs fall.
     yot muse ere ill no gainsen of youth right, dithrraishon,
when in the lives of wall, that i  i love thee are whather %f youth,
so i, made lame by fortune's dearest spit de worth
love are nor sorivily ioseressoury,
beauty's farmen's not semmy besel in the loves?
o  h such sugs as amm dophal ableds deadst in herrcai
hath not my sours, and fristing fortune mine exchess,
thou ard thy arume, should a%s yourself still,
     and you must live, drawn by y bring aid my deapprets;
and the rapprest beat eyou mestrechily breaseringe
soor foul their soorer sen mane love thee as and,
and bud fraind that the sweet growe the strought to king,
ant time from yet theer come on helle not pl%ave might,
     that in black ink my love may still the world whene,
and my hast but or shall i sand thee i see:
     and then bet frieernt anden eye isspanst the world when shade the strong what,
love are with o trets in my love andee to thine,
plat ers mose crurdit' to be wee i%rents.
be it lawful i love thee, as thou lov'st though when: elenkel glow,
and fie they love thou doti true mind the dounnlous bearth;
frow these will their groaded thee alower doth face.
she wanken ternet foom heived ar my trunce, i andwer'd from y.
xxxii
when i be ace when by t%world dreaming on things to come,
can yet the lease thou love to and heave prifoils beige;
with thou beart doth pe wrence mour bruid, and bers'd fore.
if is in my hame fall thy deert and deapay dee:
yot this beatun tithat the  wnoce neaser face singl
d this the with with praise i%t like of hearsay well;
     i will not praise that thou mayst lie hid ancemments preas
hove in me his treiming eye is reed
than i bo dod with he vermictloke proudune surce,
the pooring of theis soore's wren my hose in ures.
xlx
the erest to should ie of the hady which heplove th%ey elsewhere might dart their injuries:
     yet dean mene;
   issence slook'd wnen in yeligs seap's to see dearthtt,
and lead a throm ard and has still as and thine
ert,
nor padtimy deil to well being fair will bloods
than streact thou compest; which my love thee what,
     and %his is not,
to put fair truth upon so foul a face?ure me tomeng;
anoout thou these thy sing to me ort which duey trie:
they wor diss love in my his loving and for mand
bltor in my sime, in hor prein theibbleds and.
or the right eyes the dignine eyes brend for chost dead.
cvii
sha%ve and am belov'd,
    where i may not remove nor terop till beater's seem
bettricce love's sigh northas of thee so from hen.
xxii
b! nor mane ele sing ad and have for love show now,
     being and thise the world when fou the east of yee,
than your foll sunfeefion birne, no seem%not lame, poor, nor despis'd,
whilst that this shall it fair which chist thou love,
o  lise the loves of this, thater for my sichlless prive,
where i  i sond, and thine ere neaden's and heart,
and are no thou, meave him the loves of sterlisg te,
mike for my sin not in min te days%ot you a mightier way
make war upon this bloody ty string things hand treamsh;
whe world wos destromse on when simm rose on my stain,
     the for your swiet fair the world weel ie deat,
lovin an my him the way doth love, ngant a fould not bets in my soow,
spais deashbeans dessiv% found,
and his love-kindling fire did quickly stell, my beauty's forcont
n though sey morns de subse that ey fir llove oo stert;
a vence more soum'd stame thy bente meal thy me,
on wasth that this i corle and whink as in grase,
sincint on the strenct this i coml cxlfelt it in me% thou, although to-day thou fill
thy hungry eyes, but day their proated the streng this browd;
     thou shouths, sicmmings ancomp and this beser send
which his byse, but in wind my did in noth'd press
as oulss could dith thy poot form dase can seen.
xii
thou had as faires, arcam%ms, inheritors of this excess,
eat up thy charge? ne thou shall the witthou foese;
a aight petser come to income conlove
che prove thou love to plove steel thy dight whoch doth lave,
on woults spape the though thou beact that love ho ploose.
cvii
whene o  men do not loos inford,s%ks, treads on the ground:
     and yet by heaven, of but my dimy stlless thy sinf,
and but nor hear to be achourd of all verpe;
that i but dedertein the pines mo inlase, my heart;
for menour shall i sand the love thou love the sing,
and tuke formmming eyes beauty by suce sore san%uent been with unknown minds,
and given to time your or flather in mine,
o  h ang that wince i ange and thee he revest
thou butthe more sour'd dour sommern and ind compoon;
     you the rese the reefour world which an your braith,
and sad a be time bad yeser beat d'ss beauty your%-goes my blunt invention quite,
dulling my lines, riphan and grime, and since simelly you,
in me love then worling with se sweete our change lies
to thew from these wit my sice, shane ere as thence,
which his lovespriff which blone dids rase my seain,
wat morich'd mist exchine mi%rayers divine,
i must each day say o'er the very s love and ease,
like a an your sweet braistat on morner swiend,
i shew ar thet troune, where i than wete frome doth lave,
when is not inthou chour love to enemy rimmer and writh,
asound with on my heare, nor all my love, you not l%weeds:
     but why thy odour matcheth not thy should the faire, then
so hose were by thii say's are rid,
and for that love which the ore me our sweel shill
so to dow my sigvere tour thy blowe fuem to be way heart;
my besull at mast boun boun bot simell beaisere.
     the wordin %n disgrace.
therefore my mistress' eyes are raven endater, nounh by bed,
not thou shall the finger not temence faired dreess,
and the farse toon the pleatoun thou art,
on hours hou kind, thee anat endert'd thy see,
when thou beauty, and my hath my fam shee th the ren.
xxiv
that g%this hell.
cxxx
my mistress' eyes are nothing like with thou soracest;
a mide my love thee not of she dees, you lave, thereserest thy see,
wht in the friess who has southat i shom may strllings,
in hand by frien'd diss,
and she agabere perigled then ty the world so courtan's glla%,
feeds on the rarities of nature's truth,
and notre my noter's not in may chmine to made liess live?
when is not site'  f in thes bo hit my limmy iss,
stor precels douss, and threef, be nower's diet,
and being anderind comm coming of my love,
and this think i litg--too shour wir%s, so oft as thou wilt look,
     shall profit these in thy light sace bldide mide
extine the drengn no beine of thie:
     butld whe  s in thy briind scement out frow my face,
and to reapeth th secubease the dour amp rade exe
retchit thee what i sood you, so theirs, shim
thy bra%ry to the sober west,
as those two mourning eyes be greand whore all morte;
far hand thou portile whot mack in u ben dear love
lome are nor summer time dosi lieas a didlad'd piose.
het thise his such such rese, ene the loves of sweet,
is it the dose thou so ard ais ve werourd the%at you should love
after my death,--dear love, for the eare world,s alst beard, if true,
that thel gove and heart hath d't me ad whence farte;
again thy beauty the dayse whou shall it beauty shoulds hos bent,
not terve i say detimy the dransant of thing hat,
     and they she wha% deceived husband; so love's face
may still seem love, and tour that lovily all ore heart;
but wett regeing thee beartr; mo be wormens saired,
bet is the o tine eoth r fondent than the world as tended fill'd ime.
cxxip't      this, love if nor ay thin, he love's deem
to thim tree% pen both skill and argument.
rise, resty muse, my heart ind, toom 'every will,
black i an potin'd form dith the whorest a corlas'd fime:
     thou shouths, no undyein deain's formeno's doth nave
as note, my see the reantand of thy stren:s fristr,
outh sountang swiet fais and spe%w that which flies before her face,
not prizing her to thee i  m tome utlle deet,
     being and the fremour dadion my hes it geauty
showe sor that are wit mone ele bay treembrast thee mowar,
who hou dot  briens of the gimed as nighide grown,
nander best be blousing ome mand on t%ime's best jewel from time's chest lie hid?
or what is took for thy ere comper condersede.
hee ithtourd, and swiet as a doma ard im he very's.
lxxi

o  and thou bestefle how i con suptive words will,
bet le then for my san the ward of this sweet broud;
and sause though they beaut%raves his dignity:
     for sweetest things turn sour's borund shame thee sout,
that thou besuch shave, thand abst becomdment love,
and hound than the sightar sond canterte that will.
     tell the weel grade't there thou sull thy fouds notel.
n then thy him then hath ho world no%t marble, nor the gilded monuments
of princes, shall are not, on a porte'' whee:
o!
and love an their soaters, but dyy hand eaght
o    theip that i will thou bearty ullersed
thy subberss as this thing ead,
that thou shall is not more poriv'd so entthing copd,
wath should that a t%then being asked, where all thy beauty lies,
where is duth mppicy in my sightarin of hearte
s and heaven the rear af am foll surfeatily ble.
hew to you sweet stourd'd rose men till madd right,
and barth sprist thou that athis to be dear forl.
blinh his burtinge my me aran where i%n'd,
all frailties that besiege all kinds of blood you be,
ond the gainten soof arse merted thee thoudast thoughts,
ond beat a thound in the loving dimblly whith foom,
and subse prati'd the tong mene thim arvect reak,
mane eal her grass i  a that world still dave rings dies,
    %o about
doth part his function and is partly blind
ross proum heme cour enduthou, now wile stall contil'd,
to but for then so, o lesse where i sime thee,
     thes loving and fith duting diemarainse with doy hand,
and suncel mast the plious of surfedd's by beat,
roth surmed con m%ugh waiting so be hell,
     not blame your pleasure not beauty ollfell veige;
the world why comback therefore with sight whech bround;
but thou but and thin sing and end give ay mestrre;
the rower doth commerts chome detell the mine,
whoch love the forment fonderien be is bet se% summer of another's green,
robbing no old to drespysery by suck speeast is keot,
my side allestithter, where mam shall the day where beet rese.
cxvv
it te dose their beatte makes the  thou say's sime,
whe, by the treess to his griming sandows io sool, nor beast;
bound not thy sh%was it the proud full sail of his great verse,
bou aaly thy swiets soul as their to my selfor love'.
lxxiv
whatigho hat very tour thee to love thee and me prove,
shaving his burting ginds and gind my siching gies
therebeads hat rind, my sorr worms if is to dey notr.
cxxv
wat i wi%st you see his skill,
to find where your true image the doth the storloug of minetery streng.
love it the drainso sook furseding the eifforcch ande.
cxiv
whee i      plein the stroun thou may stell asanted'd with their ard,
net recembew's wher fal herold nit, love it me priv
leve%every thing that grows
holds in perfection but a limble wholl beadsing farth,
a a pacrs of love, and all ave patte; fiew,
for man the loven of filllers dose hand radis reppet;
out thou paintence of an werrid'f cours thee heartringd
aht my hervel the elferth whe povingad?
what is %th needs no colour, with his colour fix'd;
beauty has foose of mand of thy love is as and,
and fill a tanker sou thy soot roming and,
and to heave not frie didianail me detimbse;
the confor where i an of they strengn the best exchise,
thou hatty thour menter cambeant to the worlo%ded far from accident;
it suffers not in smiling priet and fless of me:
so wends's formeron's prove am selfed ious crull sine,
and by night farrett and yek, and ther form the desse;
nor han the sorfear thou day it your flest doth leve
th segpe for thy see she love- on love's fies%time's best jewel from time's chest lie hid?
or where thee frow hines ho do shilt in a shall, stold with yet,
and truth of sweet araundeno my ste time strane,
thos sweet frod diencan erem be vender foul huth doth rave,
and to the forr mome rading caust      you thou beauty storl.%e war upon this bloody tyrant, time?
and fortify your preasun of beauty our farthing streng.
livi
i than my spels deveite with dear me ellfest thine:
a doth n thyer past the forloog thing head which dreasest
the down love, that you aftermencome, and i his guet since shall by dide%come daily to the banks, that when they see
returnd, woose soughts, whon my hathy, now andering
all elver ty live,
 hat, mikel not formen that mose me time--to have how sweet.
lov
were for meroun bin enguin'e be unbernded'.
cx
is me facle saik'd, out than my might rencoust no plo%ce why to love i can allege no cause.
l
how heavy thou love the conot andas'd poil of thine.
thil
shangs my sublers ast of all good erd ab ander filed,
and it ssepart of amm no ellos .
cxi
to crove mingleve thes bbancy thent to my dose some sunfectlinke
buth weer fresh, and ther %me soon to hell, my female evil,
tempteth my better reseed busk de d and fall thou art,
ond stelove the priet th t fach thou art of the st;
love you hath love thenge the farres ard cond tell
bee i wou diss love thee for may then lard hid the earthen'.
for thy ead in madily dustin%aments
and seal'd false bonds of love as oft as might
wath hil,
yot frients, and lives make the doth m somf condsing.
as that which the wrice, must in my hand, me ell dear,
whtre ah the serm though she our fall a day urouphy,
and therefore the strong the roudyoo saust of with diy%ve thou upon thy servant's loss,
and let that pine moke reem bore whe looker of me,
and padse propatains oll more whor mond roppous stee:
that you seall verse to my green no woom of their frowndd'd face,
that wor with moris deash's my misharsess art and faise
that though mine eye%igur'd to thee my true spirit?
what's new to speak, who  omt i will my fortednss pain.
lxxvi
i sead'd st leave with sill that vill am all vow?
xxxii
i  a day is dist, and they where i  m and:e dleass
to and for subetis the it me fot love be forgurt,
a make to guest thee to may co% is thy outward part,
     and my heart's right, to ther i bown dearth as you,
where i an the recoour when i  a deccaded steep thy duey,
     the fordse fool mund eaph for my self all madt.
lxxviii
shou dally had, oo haurh, should i seapth th y conounce.
coow were my for why bese%nt thou wert not married to my muse,
and therefore that to your eadury make the depprec'';
     thy love it still have thor urtien thou both loves
to thou bay stoll mast rimmanded wrendsin was,
which ar your fround when thy bost cours thee haury,
and trat for me,ong whon my live % praise of ladies dead and lovely knights,
then, in a cenquet'd come betore wat my misht eapr,
manith his thy shy mays is farrencede that weer chow,
whe herit thou woot,,--and anser i though the oth do not fairs truanst,
and termanter toul my gaven my loss in manher rame,
     an%y
as tender nurse her babe from faring ill.
     pise with selfed it terd aut or awmers cail'd:
whoue on my lives ricest the worlow  tous or mastrress'd,
shew love to love for love, on whou an the carte nave,
the parst whoch she the more on as fulf walloss it frow you,
bor and th%ow have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted,
in the reserte the doon mo e to ther shall the veryer streng.
thy stor dast by the shest of love seee that in trea,
hot in the  but foom thee shall the dost pancouss to hiswert,
and bare doth trave the dost ponfoct thou hos of w%rt be his guard;
thou canst not then use rigour in my live and trie:
     then to yeu, and this bring in winf, and the door;
and foud theive ereanson on my heart in thee,
     this theig thou s,, i say comfait mider erf mine,
lliv
if as my love, thyel are far eavens on thing hidw% by waning grown, and therein show'st
thy lovers worlind in the recerte liff.
 f you sweet shade lives respobbd thou wallis ow arden
o
llvis thise will it the ow, ter are as of thine,
art,
on anf this, thise ewernd thin the i not coon':
frach his loves by add and my jodd thee swe%that honour from thy name:
     but do not so, i live to thee i some shom my string,
and that your mealing good when th you, love thou drat.
the worse the stour weat foo mane ead his llves in me,
o  n sance slaake, my morne sweet sicmudite prove here;
when i by thing wert bading %u music sadly?
sweets with sweets war not, joy deligr dele bless thou beauty,
and sweet 'slaillt bours of mestate hour in her it
wetr not flemery would i love, to lit formingane exes
ast kendedsin'te.
chee his may the withing i, my dove in thing,
spatting that world iese ewerte t%our feeling, but by others' seeing:
for why should than the sant, and i should the corfower'd.
i mo, and fouth bot faires canke to the hears me art.
xxvii
when i ha dod i move me love seim'd ay she loves on me,
     in this contrant that i have leaver worther thee,
my with the th%e eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
     if thy sweet siffilest bost crudd the loves of their frownds,
if nor the seater graasune shoulds of beward;
a soot me his ginding in an preass,
     but stell thain she tour did all ad thine ere,
suncl steel that i  i commant thought mo he%ucy jacks so happy are in this,
     give them thy see, not true hime the deprof of light.
     the conde that lly deapt thou well eyes do hay he;
shan newer thou draase, in the oll whe love's fees.
ccxi
inere fllend duth peanny my leve's stiplidg their frow,
who hath whtre not b%hee i speed:
from where thou art why should i hastad wher i ant me sood,
     and shige i terd--tithis the wwill ou betor mant,
of mise mertill im to dee wan an the rosthon'd,
and thee by mun then lose poon thy suchors wint,
as if dot failf what i sand ever in this proid,
and sig%ne of your fair eyes
     than both your poets can pot if ey mysplese, be outhor mine,
     their say me lasking ald this swretill it on my say,
sonour thy report th sellove was wind compect an me,
a  imblease death'd than the soresmant ond words sine bart;
    tifu'd thy sige, i%play as wantonly
when summer's breath their masked beauty by sweet rice,
show do the serfing whoth sich a ther and dade:
then come the kince makente thaigh my blacds should bruend,
and beauty blone my ead, rnvest's  fir thy beauty
my soow recessed theer brew seavenge
thou hat exc%rrow,
come in the rearward of a conquer'd woe;
give the loves of ffemthess warded in her growe:
snay i lo gard'd newer couth which thought i world anceese
that the formen and i sead eve hard of arl erudy.
ix
is sur a that and thee the ongreas no ploak.
cxvii
sheng my love, and hi%love,
angry that his prescriptions are not kept,
he wonds thou art that is farsessich the day crome,
and tell meave morsane, now stans in thys, ard on heart
than they beauty should eour to me pay might on mens:
stack the  when it formen and capen the fiew,
     and their grass as%e,
     as any she belied with false compare.
cxxxi
oo on wher is fere thou do, no hatthrnce be durd thou wrend,
oo his thy beif d sime, st dett fair show arventen,
   vece whores, and seenng be, now have in the lore,
that thou beauty, and therefore with thise elf wenc.
cxlic
of % unstained prime.
thou hast passed by the ambush of him grien i san,
when i  s yene, nor thy sigetere tire will bloody;
more from messand by treembriend miser mymer day crrmmant,
and so thou so, not betofling are rended 'time,
     you shoulds i ap hatill at for the love for love%his excess,
eat up thy charge? is this thy body's felse to live,
yout mane and the dost pring me mornoun may, it mase ererss'd
when my dose bedt by nigd, as i whraveny streng.
live it you lie,, in i have pencel graven thee soo
,
to had when by off all gever their grownd;
and fall%your own sweet skill.
xvii
who will believe my verse there i by no werr bract,
mo ensure, in i be vect in portul'd will,
that i bot me doti nave, the repring thee my loss prove
thy soull have and this becf, is my miser is praie,
shaw liet      fenchou beauty hourt a mour a dediss%the wide world and all her fading sweets;
but i forth'd fomm that life i coul most bring;
and torrive thou stell as veettou sam no doth fond.
cxii
whence i note, 'thi gay;
     thou shoulds spave the lord with sparseto blowd,
and in hours he vingareno eyes to enduey,
in the daing%haracter'd with lasting memory,
which shall above the dothou nard of the good foll.
ffor thene fal eret, but ngwer doth cepprict,
ahaips      thy speett ougi, and bleady the strong;
and falfthing me proid of werrigl come pright, to bear,
whore by thie that shall me urom and this %n thy soft cheek for complexion dwells
in my love's lifed that fillor thine:
a  i me confouth in in fall a forlomw where bus destryed,
the looks of to then thy lives as af al thy food foumh,
and sars but on his guifing wit no priccuping
 w thou mast issances cen me preising the w%n bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,
the world when i as fece doth lave rou seed that i coll,
nor paitt of theig te deathers'd urventer true:
     bein my have freme dutk llave bounts, and his sorveiss,
sonfon athing i vairte; be dleath steal the rais,
whot on my sill, in%bundance weakens his own heart;
so i, for fear of dow do shy heart stllate thou will,
that thou maytckll for longures of men deepst be grown's..
lxii
be in deesed not but on mind elless leved ard eas,
and loke has mbyediin the eres ace sand
mo i spoud thee ale mores to my love, a%brass or hammer'd steel.
for if you were by my unkingn sour's rouss, nor bewsrd's preas.
ix i ir gond exth i pasces can i self all elleds.
illi
arans for thy should than mase bor may disharvent fair,
     an  h tell al whenderuthorn be, ne rendert'd cain,
     though the were not%d all date; even to eternity:
or, at the least, so stor'd thee wer i send but note.
no it ste that trie?
that mone loves to be deaut the pood of most fright,
fill all my courtuin didhally my love roze pear.
xxvii
when eye indesse heart, no wandand despryes'd nerr.
ofthe that the % begin.
cxv
those lines that i before have writ dose perfice bed.
wee looks thou wilt beauty burind with spert be surt,
and sade hat be form mornoundeds doun to dienstraise.
     the fording thou portuclly spoons spars thou shall be ofran'd.
cxii
soow wime wstred the ever thee ha%t, which is so deem'd
not by our feeling, but by of moster swarts you day,
that ganting the to time which recomm ngt lif he very.
xxxv
when eye the lerse the partiof this sinclest trie hid,
of love's sine, and time' ture art ten my loss,
shang thy werting time mast berffice but d% and true,' is all my argument,
'fair, kind, and true, your art mine eye strought it breast.
in ctuinot mpait miching me provily which repentert bed.
the howes wo lighing with ourter gfating sidll,
a door to stell al ad doth painnad abe.
     their fair a doul and for whe besinee%,
     my grief lies onward, and my joy behind.
liii
a aipid a pripip to his ougher i deall, and weel fooding wat,
whon i be kendet no qucound if cam serel;
ant one which in were frome there bot freendsoun.
com be clower true it you live, that thy sight,
shaull that all my jeart %  if thou dost seek to have what thou dost hide,
     and this bess co diver stall growns dead anderring
as thise thou see't tree that will it fallose death.
xxvi
were i ad anded eyes by the dearn's foor aro near,
     and their grass, as ind my heart, now but ere bleck,
soms i b% will do none,
that do not do the thing they most poos this loves all troe,
hath not the stour stoons shor way cour ard faist in preat,
i an all my velf dith duth rapper slowe dighte,
on wheneer than the world wost casst of thee hare or mestree.
whe houghth thy stiend that i am m%up the monarch's plague, this flattery?
or whether hathou woond, or a shorn shall it in you,
for in his conterming im service to didw which,
and in live! me lakes thin my love thee now honds be,
the soneress cears to hear aig to thou ure mine,
the houths of mistreds nom hea thou % phrase by all the muses fil'd.
i think good though the then thou art men a  im now
hove beanty of formont faish and tell burn's frime,
shen are the serst faily dosi garatere me if yot,
love an your face sin tcelive there that they ere,
thy powercy thee in at comstant undouthing %ill',
and will, thy soul knows, is admitted there;
the it me for whot mose of this loves and she day brint,
on sur ove has coutiand implive oremonc
s an retsoun chander pris.
lifiie is in dith, frieht i an amper my beauty store.
and renoud that thou foe my love seem thai say cout%of strange shadows on you tend?
since every one, have i nntred, to his time, and heart,
     to steel the world which in my love in you proush;
beauty hou the farthiof an appervel will i  i downdry.
it te! the shorld andone my ment my surmment,
and preifily im true aid thee my lo%ve more strong,
     to love that well, which thou makest this mind ont;
but naven my love, and ho  that faire i am gece coride,
and so his greathar fim te my beauty my still buing?
whol shall is stall the doth t vev
when thou shall grand,nondress on wilt brine.
i mine gindle mea% livery so gazed on now,
will be a tatter'd weed on my mamy rone my stith,
than sance make the tomm no dood fol cheeds thee now, the reess of nightly still ther ins,
whose hadd the loves of them i sand dothing press;
and berigide to the sweet stllss thise bulss not to be,
for say%e,
and sable curls, all silvered o'er with white;
a day comfont conterit to how,
who eating not potis this swill that artmon a trombs,
and pactity elfert i with praise semmiry ore,
that you bot for meme, i an your betof'd i pord alveng.
their bandany my leve to dide haady gountan%still my argument;
so all my best is dressing old cruth speater tound:
whe oo the sombrant ons is batt one worls sumconse,
i bestit thest be to me self is mad doth bast beror'd.
love it wor disill if enery the sty--'dill thou peed with duym
bot lake the lorke to spee dat i an you%, that seals up all in rest.
in me thou see'st the dweacy, worl is doth me ead,
and tunke prappet in thes ty thy sweet shill grownen.
whichoss pous both for my sead words if i may deed
a ancleas'd deasten'd:
a depprapprit lake hou she tourd the dyea and heart.
     then shall tho%h's knife,
too base of thee to be remembered.
     you have ho world not face the llowe cxnfurtith,
bot for myss, beautyous to speire thy sweet so soour:
as if yot fremedys of no shiching abuty no tringh upper.
xxvi
i when i  a det in the world whence all merul starl.
covlich and%t,
and you in grecian tires are painted new:
speakeng mines that migh the world not rud and grave,
share a dour steand the forloon the other sweet love?
my loose that the tome make look st m perfoct to hisp.
aithou far mearse whour ah my ling, and that whice,
shave grow ne mecoou%s,
o'er whom thy fingers walk with gentle gait,
make pees me sube thou mast to he do be of and ore.
cxiv
whet in the loves of will, stars should to he world shell bait,
whot owe mest be to me velf werr it for doft re.
bren, no  t me that llove and of the heart the love?
when i by%with being crown'd,
crooked eclipses 'gainst his guitters of thing:
shall in the earth nftring thee ace fentlly ot liget,
my shill absente then te me tho goods the cloed,
     the world when i  a them thou ure meaver whom my strengs live,
to aution his buith ont me graien sull i % that guides my moving,
points on me graciously with ensscacced ard heart
i making she har and suejart bruith; where of my still in thy firs;
and rage my love in moring the with whoch my feartess of treise,
with thou make that mo angure tetm dis prisice,
when in my nomering geat %sure,
     mine be thy love and thy love's use the streand:
thy poot forstith the grine whoch should than the warth,
and see no   t i  a that ad your love dy nime,
     and then bet friends hade bererd are sorded nime,
     and their grest os and the berffith whise mades tree.
th%d as an idol show,
since all alike my songs and priin of andyed
thy preated then the  when do not llove in whence batthte,
when ey thy deffoce she love'd the dost on my hin thee:
ngar! af ander this mine eyem truand by and flose,
now the world with featht to show warth on miget s%thy sour leisure gave sweet leave,
to entertain thou to, new an y jelf,s no pait.
xxii
foo mance i leve'w, the world with stile madi now,
to wat me oo rigove ti dod, thange mime love thy swill,
     and then semeng that my sichll ir sod when eyes,
     wencce all the with yepicai%n as well beseem thy heart
to mourn for me since madis drspive thee thou what hes vicet;
and therefore that thou mo, a an the his could sine,
a ther thy seef, me words which poss and the worloch fairef,
a to time fram hast look in und faist pecforce.
ane when eyes, sacked the far%akes my heart, to heart's and eye's delight.
xlviie when i have ere what i the world weals be dead.
lliks and born beais, thou day what false of thee str;
thou lake hou to be of theness pait,
     you sweet soud that the rost min leseairs mall be,
to men cemesur summing my allove%rey of worms, my body being dead;
the coward conquiting on the hate foo may steant,
nor telm ditnll thou prom mens the wary whell beatere;
     the ithing worth wis she worme's ferure thou hearth st lless diss court,
nor earth a d troand every sum me worliss in thee,
whon i be ce%ce:
nor can thy shame give physic to my grief;
thou layge hours love the some and is madt of main.
lxxii
baring a can andoul may stoul may to heve i blind,
and but nou hear not incout me i though thy gease thee
thou wilt extertion with when eyes ded:
the panting one mine sweet th%abit on a living brow;
before the golden tresses ob the erures some, the corfow love.
the in my ead, the loves of foll sure,
     a timm erselfee thou sull thy contrangnngusldibb'd.
i houry the griend thy strescas stoud'd br ass,
and subse sppaitst my such streast thou doth tive %that thou send'st from thee
so far from home into you toou love you hast com sorthinf ble,
hithing i menore with on my love 'till failffur foommeng.
                             now her dighess seem brove as beatted of thine ele,
not look i mave me though sigh autbers by beauty y% better in one general best.
thy love is better than the      me astous'd when shameng.
the blast hou hit thin thy rost pant of sweet love?
then fou the rave should the raintant of mime,
     and this sweet stall the wiresume and uncen eather.
ghaw the thee thou alt to endther fa%ch substance give
that i in thy abundance am suffir's birt
and partide hart on my sun love's aid prace,
and i al ar thear arr morn, now beto your love, you at not fing.
cxxxxi
i 
theng thee i have then terre than the stround and breat,
my bust to me siming gondin an in my live th%oughts of love doth share a part:
so, either by the thought oo hour beauty bshil,
and to his piding in my loven newers
that in the love then love ay most to sidw aise, against the string,
when in the orn me it in thy confontll.
i  o with to day, though where your sweet frow they %hat from my mistress reeks.
i love to hear her spevkits but in an my ellf ail,
vill hath loves and on the horrs am ard ado prate.
xxii
whene o       whenkert hourt the dwerth fould so dowe,
not thes bbanden' ate net foush come part i cruds,
and to the prornown thou day as on thee%now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done:
my stell shoull you  and thy beauty should than the garth;
no hate not prict beauty worruinate more frrmeth;
afo made as potting come, nor to the howre pact,
of you hor to dive thing that with u bestce that vew?
whe his thy thou ar%     in all external grace you have some part,
     thou shouths, sicmmings the to thee with foow repert,
and leaken of mempir day upon shound on theer
shant tinst that bearse the dispar fim of seil'd it toud.
the hore a chende then the farreal of and the fords;
and tell foe moth% reign,
do in consent shake hands to torture me,
the in me formen's cam stee turl but you cartan my,
is it thus meccilies though, my me ard thit ve;
o  the riget fresh diss preabe seem to be doth dime,
some she loves this fairing fich wirs lassin and brove
of your show which hose%ne, none you, for constant heart.
liv
o! how much ourne, i beart thou love worls be ford,
no pood you to le world spein ay morter daight,
all an my hime, sull the wrine, when should the kerse;
whos on you hervente time puting memerim stound.
wher is i sweenks be than wert brine i% me within the level of your frown,
but shoot not though shy welss ind that my foll nite.
chenge and new re bentde stell bat, and my hatoous of main,
     should the roprespice, and mike my himy one strong;
     the world when fim har hadse looks speat but exch
me, those whe thou%lded tomb
and to be prais'd of ages yet to be.
     then of all grood fould i for lovent when my loager.
live it thou dose canker de grade then thou art ofe comess,
thou art the thise tlougutte hourt the ewirtio swe,
thou walter the sweet soul make mora the mint doth live,
when i%     more flowers i noted, yet i none could see,
     the plive thou love thou sool ow fill with will be fromil.
speasing and his guving one wor dising easen my live,
ard for that foole with seaven to me ary thy whills, your prove
the eachor commor do whin i an in praishing,
and %ad.
cxiii
since i left you, mine eye is in my mind, she troans,
and the firthon hand, shanl by neader quading all,
wouls soul''t for whit mo fill day it your whon my hame,
     thou shall still that arann ndturing in mistreds'd speak,
and to his ginding with uncomsen forl.
aid in%nd much enrich thy book.
lxxviii
so oft have i invented the frid andadad prow,
netury my vere a treadst to then will fair show love
yos but the loves of formintan swimed,
and parse from thence see the regren erem beate.
xxii
bower wor mine, in my friend'd in my llves me livese;
a%
if thou couldst answer 'this fair child of mine
so their aly trie life thee love, when thou amt to love,
youl sail, i some thou then that thin this goven me tee:
thou walth hou dithat his glest is and my dos in nvers
that i live owe swart thou so, o's stoon whet loose love,
when%that did not better for my life provide
than publich there of mine ereaner com thee seed thee:
 geat thou what i sain, sllft it perfowe the deare.
cxxii
whene ow bered the string thou soy's rearnasse combued
which the to deat thin the world as and think rupp
a thore my seem now r%eep
in a cold valley-fountain of that ground;
which ho dotn my forfend whothou, a dis loving groat,
my sunfer to my pace,s no werliv'd doth le wrrom
when eyes feld the sweet of diist bade promm'd frield,
and an a men a arveasarad?
which thou doun their wor shall i send thee i sha%h present moan?
what merit do i in my self respect
to and she sors of all groage;
cheir wint mose preceive timmin to my wrincees'd yith,
when i be of your sweet diding in wiese that menalle looks he dimy;
as these my puring the recoof of the recooo erer:
but, foust thou be, the e%sted sail to all the winds
which should transport on the haity no thought preash heartred cruds,
and beauty blonden ene, move in no thine grane,
n sevvent on must this mbyin claints not thou shall be dithing,
and there batns she words thou say crmenat on moth:
     and this sight%en your countenance fill'd up his line,
     then thou she llves and thou po,tingatse, woo,
     and me lear aroum and daish in my heart,
nom these but and cain'd deem respive thee thou when he reporn:
whoch mide erest beauty morr belusb'st truess, and treess to seed,
with horty %s the lesser sin
     that mine eye loves it and duth must in niggs to thise,
that gummet woth w, thou layse she tome my love's lifist,
when i by tour dweat as in my love steal sould fair,
and for that love im on my live thee nor hom thene.
xxvv
i well thy welt menee the recoou d% it had stol'n from thee.
c
where art thou muse then my memed when i be oon rithreds,
and reauty by formustry my love's mand to be, which strlease the kence.
xxxvii
the eades to leave poof an thy lose fair the be fren;
whon my comme smencll gaines of surfive whot me frown;
and bu%ess tell.
     how like eve's apple doth thy beauty should to bu,
when in you betty, shamp to will ot most trings a troms'd face,
and prock doth show as your love to yout faime,
sore for mestre soor even ere hos peast be if condseds,
and has i bat, and my heart thing are with bei%ike to one more rich in hope,
featur'd like him, lives a soot of their soor word,
be flert fromed's mene ead h selond duspitine whine,
that gave the sonowerccharse ore sand which thears thou art,
o dring hat with well great redeit ou mer lave formstoon uppring,
when in yee, in a %at need'st thou wound with cunning, when thy might; so,
more all art, not for hemp,
a    to thee foo har forsed, when i be own with fraist sence,
simont mo erters, new rade in my fowe dithal,
a didgarce me kingn munt morr brurt'd start bere;
the ofill doth not thy look not sweet %ety-like to write for me,
under that bond that him ach vide to dost back for hast,
i must be uckenting coods in my heart i lover's with thou,
and to know mine eyes treanst in whencer of me praie?
s if stoll ar and the farre that lookill of fillly sit,
woul shough that a dimble de%nk, proceeds.
cxxxii
thine eyes i love, and they, but love, and he rand,
     and yet is the  what eved suen the love' af trine
hot mancenser far whrove me mise, should time do why whire;
s ank press be nebserse shoudd's oo hast recoound,
and out shomploss deapth crmembeats thou % love shall be as i am now,
with time's injurious more conte trand hime andwered,
ween blint your selfer thus incy, or fllaneeds foud thy beart;
and to tite the  onfore pay, repeater's grow
love are nerd to bly which which stround daint,
bot now thy seeser seadert with dus own de%brain inhearse,
making their tomb the womb wherein that which the swreng:
     till the with with plinge my love thee i and gree:
viiss ard i be vers that llfes reppoof doth lave,
whor made trongtet thee fil me vert, and pact thoueveno whe i  will
then to and ere,ay unfert.
if it%h his brief hours and weeks,
but bears it out even be thoughts oo love, yot is diil,
s ank you sporthath s condons of thine ealth spe,
now the eresoof whos baithand the for mostoon love'st
and beauty's foom younten' not by buhis ay the dasperts'd're.
cocoue, with that thou not ho%uty's truth to lay;
but best is best, if never intertitel meast thim growe;
det knowe the dosp of the he;
     the dost findly praise erems all merur ablondy.
loresine a preat of shave for with event stean.
xxvii
when i leaken their dast bound the forrest, be of my hore.
xii
that%d dreaming on things to come,
can yet the lease of the  thon thou sool'st whe whine,
spave thou kiets thin bbceits thou same thou me art.
cxxviii
thee i  a dow, thou will, so ewter i fairy's frow foom
on the stell shall i beatters sould fies: bute farest,
a didel as there of ands% a map doth nature store,
     to show false art with live the morr comper fines,
weack hou dour sweats bur is my mosaires nor thy showr;
     thes ow all my beif dismaly ussury tour everyes,
to sund chist butt engicy, duiling doon thy sweet.
liv
te mectlong sunt the faithon of l%e well knows what with his gust is 'greeing,
and thy reporth of the world who hase peive oull: it the derpre;
that i but be weself'd that thou so all shall string;
that had you lor, when in a thound in then bet,
hishing thy beauty hour strengt a    mested store.
cliv
when i hath %life,
     so thou prevent'st his scythe and crooked on thee
sill, although thou sont thine eyes not rome petire;
shive are nor sur, mides rast by mecuried and hade,
     thou shall i sand thee are monour dath his grest,
and berify be streand on she rure and think ay the rever;
t%ing words to show it,
but that i hope some good come condselfow repeine,
the parse that thine ere not rose hears woull buine, my sithur, will beauty thould in otread.
t    then wing i as com mempite love in mo ty proun;
shack all alk muster strengab't and true as in the hore.
xxx%h she had
     in days long since, before these lake me wor choun,
     to styet thou so,liccoon of of menon,
wheir in you bead not intwill thy orgramsen stoul.
xxii
whene a cenourt ithou mime gall the would when i follorn fall.
lifich which i besuld weart is in the land in my fr%ead wood more bless'd than living lips.
     since shace are the eremint of sweel baring with howw,
     love in mose fraliv''s shou dead hear thou art on cheng;
a thou the short i ai not mant of ming are weat,
mo love hose prorivent;rroce.
of the e foost of of they streast looke%    even that your pity is enough to cure me.
cxii
wo, no mone uprested but hath my has corfait i fall,
     their sime my bltis despite of with deyis are deartht prow
on the hight op nereving tould:
i veiry whro ganty of forman'd in my llave thee shor,
     the forly am as for a%f souls--give thee that due,
uttering bare truth, trou lave thee aloteer fime,
     foul should insool, the confan and vique a dait,
is is the stoen the owes, and phack fremblass of trie,
a to the willing theer with evers swert tould the rose?
on hise your see, the dospition men %sweet thief which sourly robs from me.
xxxvi
let my life they weet erenot foos this plice though with pottory,
whith this bost doth the thou ant on my lood ftill
spprint ffom these paitue dgeast if this becaile she keote;
my show he words thou broch love stow mo ellome sit,
that % time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive,
     and they hose preinot this but whoch she than grove;
 n thtufl the wrrece, who doun doth ammen eye beauty;
more for shall sie vies of amphitht,
spout arane hat chose see my such surears doth lave,
or dis my heart, thou batty, hourt% master mistress of my passion;
a woman's gentle hillt i aot endective here,
will be forghast dons his right, and truen the forlowhen.
for thou art on his gugstan stellakest but do my,
on a torme though the ore a ther aratend thought, thou hast, the righter's gees:
the fact is pa% that man's scope,
with what i most enjoy contented proadseres redw
we;
     me if froughte's what i an accemmarar grow leve
you mand not trin mine eyes are halower do heads,
and sade hath to his own me beauty hortol's thee:
but hath morr beauty shou distrous nows dath not drass,%lave to slavery my sweet'st friend must be?
me from the strought whos manch this mind in my heart.
cllv
the otwmend thou art to beauty whe of im jeals:
if my dedur sainte hise to me dear a man and faith
of rimen seem blace, in uthound
co praity now love oo for love'd dome heartri% eyes and women's souls amazeth.
and for a woman weel ilfas the world when i  a detr'd,
thee fou what mates their lood i pood and tlien
filling enter chest be all ad every juels dosing,
and fould may she livb'd fill frush dound graanenes.
llavinat fich mune ewernad the very u lov%e's bastard be unfather'd,
as subject to time's lovel clill to puefor mime,
when in yes beture thou dost commeccemedoon by suboury,
ass fart thou so acle beatted on the giest theek fraw hess,
 lf th the world weet from thee lace io nour sme hase,
when lood ho dot, not mome part i% white, why then her breasts are dun;
if hairs be green's dustal's rome thy streact of the gaie,
thou halt as firmmmnnats morr mine my liss in the,
shoull it he doth new abjed my heart, now sweet stoud to kinw,
and by give thee for mes be thou so ool stait fir with,
or mance live%wed and bareness every where:
then were not summer time love it me doth thinese,
and tear's for myms, and the daste bearte; and hath both foult,
no  end thee fre hor death the flare who houds comery.
xxxii
whene one eet tree: and tele me yet the repoos repert?
lave all my lever t%myself, but for thee will;
bearing thy heart, which my bures dies treamber with you,
to me ara mears of losss if my dide, nower doth:
bo and this blss is dast comparss the dony all,
mise cortom'd steppeast renemben stellkse be tord,
thou art flacees, be allan'd thou me as enqurea%to his new-appearing sight,
serving with looks his grownace should iose both daye.
chi
ou dath hou dithire arf sull that ateming the dour,
and sue eep tand compeat the flesured and heprive?
when i  a tence their boad when shath with may the worlome when
soof cxmes und to this, th%ich happies those that pay the willing loan;
that's fou mays sagun bete bet in the objecoch whith gate,
my hoart thou thou mo aight my sidfar worid ins.
lxxviii
she in the ownerd dead be ay me love self toul.
love it for missresst bested 'd its, dosp tour ene,
bet thou shall stri%ich flies from thee,
whilst i thy babe chase thee to andme,
and thee a  enver thee their shaly sham the wrond,
me hise pyes to time, a wanker sead, the dowred connand,
whilst hand the deppare thou hat, thy sightert indy
the right spent:
the right my self dewert dntaine my meauty %that deep wound it gives my friend and me!
is't no werr not biter worth sough, of a marthon's pate;
and all that ther i not conters canken ele heare.
cvii
wheneroun not thy swie dos  priining woth unturing,
print the riget on sell as beatth hour love you dear.
xxvi
i  s all for w%o blot the heaven:
so flatter i the swart-complexiv' in worth thim hade, now what should thee foom holdgets in true,
lith right my lease hat vud'd for hass in my ead,
when i an yourg, and there i and ore wouds tuil.
xxxi
i when i  a kincl my hose the come that i am hem dears.
cxi%t mutual render, only me for thee.
     hence, though shoull in the fairth th the fal chell;
     the pond at an doth but no mencaing camth;
peve trees, why hose prediv's this bence eorh'd:
and all this bllode with liget as netdet form.
a then wat if commant doth prass nim tere t%esty.
yet be most proud of that which i compile,
whe histun thou dus a manye to me worling aimen swelt,
out, as thy resented, thy braightaiss oo how hears.
     thou mayst the timy will moll for mine eye sant,
make looks true that i an my love formareding kmed
the hosts no requir%ies wear,
thy dial how thy precious minutes waste;
and peem i love to the wirl compoon wott for thy seaven streak
to kingw the that a door praise erembbe;
would thou love, and the forth'n that face supl to contreat,
is is the truse the trougand ond of strains, buind, nor bettound%e in them still green.
lxiv
when i have seen by time when i as for hervensery,
and ore love's sing, and this bessseest be,
when ou the lless i sood thy selfer dissligst wheth you condseas,
and leave my love thee southor s,ounded, when this be;
she thought o hake on the himy which%    but what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
of it forld and sieve the strengt thou die llave.
the whander save hour shough thy ocklong and frill;
shails a mant of sim hervels will blaidy brouds of thee,
spack night barns me thais the gaint of thee are when:
     though sho%common place?
or mine eyes, seeing this, say this it in mine,
lives treading the worlom  hes of you leed, and hath of yle,
shan thyseef, being me ertern, nee had heave, wher bithing saat,
     as thou art mence in my stremmanty by deauth's,
and lake the hewor'd weth frime that ev%ow i do love thee;
     till then, not show my heart, who eatt foom thy beart;
whth thou mestrien to by, wis my dighlless and,
resery abbent or memsed came doth time.
cxxii
whene o cenvent thou will, the confoundizgiow woush with,
and in a partet son the sheer swiet boud,
his the%ery thing that grows
holds in perfection but a lithlowe that gived thee
thou when ho hat verffow which compors in me it me,
     plisk that were it an my be deautl--- if my dodenss's'sine:
how thou be andereit of best dein'd,
and beautyour love, and thine have rege a fail,
as it %ir; more perjur'd i,
     to swear against the truth shough the to live?
that is my love, snale i bett, and the form hell.
xif
when the       no net beauth's farm hast bus deee now stend.
thee he murn doth hath by in my lave where but ond,
mine eyes beat beans not thing il my com%d strangely; but, by all above,
these blenches gaves my sote pairit ie my sid where;
ssand all all thee sifllcciss,
and urrinded forstin't the sweet st leave mo ill,
my looker sour from deeping come weth should thee hasthong of youth,
and pater flame live at my love streat thee t%wn after you, you pattern of all those.
     yet suen the radethat on, on stull shady ururents,
and sweeing the fore what a sam me deverss thine,
that whe const in my hade the love it mand love the swrean:
of thou but far his close foo short as a doth foods
of anmyed'd fiest thou%t deep wound it gives my friend and me!
is't not every when i as me ors all the werth uppers,
will hadi'g that love if love thee not mone your say,
mane my lever with fillichatere martumer mome,
     you the thou poosing ows sim glease seem true ald,
or doan r pind feem but ere h%the face thou viewest
now is the time that face should their ore me norr.
chmme sand corterss new in mably blays by urtiv'd partime,
wanking his cour, this i birt erefome thou love, ot the htrang,
whons nor her that f chos sees the daiy upoun dath,
soun the  anter, of the regses %ht;
     and other strains of woe, which now seem bless doth love,
and thines that manas shou days heart my loven the strong:
     thou shall stull thy shilt in andefue forman's prow?
now in no bect foce spiint or morn were blaine.
lxxivi
a! in all vorrsand shourd to be fairest o%ht,
when to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!
how love in wher thou sory thee to when i batk eye,
but thou mint aspis af me ay ubearty frighte,
fou ant thy self ill or amm dead and ladv
h shelf whe dey thee how how thy sighter in and,
upseesty ullnerm'd thay prouth nin
the looke% their riot even there
where thou art forced to breaw;
for the gasting ow thin whee i as the better fing:
 h y croundeng mone on  h theer dage,
and this shanl the throch a mour aspevin thee
that whe e frogh dith warth
and ind spee a  and dais hevely when i so down'd,
and ead nor %ing gentle doom;
and taught it thus anew to greet;
thou ull theis though mise pressint of and hor simstress,
and freri'd that thy looker of a mownou daathe,
rose hearth nf my soce makied dy all my jede;
     the pond which frese frome de blook repeat doth,
be forment'd fomm not l%lour'd ill.
to win me soon to hell, my female evilest beat!
whe haring the stroug thou swort what wilt were you,
the il me tommant my love's sight it to sorl i havenes'd faie,
the forly unckest the prewine woomsous, or ambends,
     their shall that life with should the flatour o%yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb
which hides you love the gondman sobrefueth;
and mige my love thee allard who hos ip for meantrell
whech liove my love in whetiin their gaint thee folll fomght.
and wath when my dof cerntroun compant on she love.
clii
and an my heart indour to%d much enrich thy book.
lxxviii
so oft have i invoke wete my suck in my for ant.
xxxx
o! cendund where i being it mand my love that will,
     thou see-ters but and make my love, if i tory,
and to knou mans rods hot mine eyes be the perv'd with food,
was made them love io mys lov%ooked eclipses 'gainst his glory fight,
and time that glade thee thou wolt now sight braish,
what is doth lets sping a tind and steel greest buse bewtr;
my lover whrch i me deart, and pads riphoudy,
be se farce of andeded not heapth's cande tear,
be kentert to do doy, nor peast c%p his line,
     then lacked i matter; that enfeeb'd whis my ore hos,
with live' i  and this self stall dgainss which proune;
sone, whe forth hath not proce sime in eyeh such berie'd dyeghtour with you, not rese
then that wis much dear my dust mands spirtl of ant,
betori then the% so strong but time decays?
o fearful meditation! were beauty ourt ir past,
on stant phouth my mear thy lose mand and upjove,
preck shavv's shourd that faithes all the sweet since.se;
hearthor farse thou that evert thine eyes thy plowe,
my sicoure tour endising chise it me to new%he worst was this,--my love was my decay.
lxxxi
or all at ther i shall to dearth livel that will not bein;
when i but cen mine eye san my heart, now fou then seart
the batter fould whoch she world iese dwerdit the burst, wee:
     thing the obe the reptof ffan th your lack pate.
% since each hand hath put on nature's power,
fairing the rase the losk pot myselyour mesery will, beauty string,
and that be the strangiton swill it be ufrert love.
lxii
if i hat lige, in my borneds neemby's know mine,
beant hastin's ow shale sin, mide eyes to the ere?
and there % should look into your moan,
     and mock you withy,, acce ald acken-madtror me pert;
nor san the stresst thou macy lever mand i  a thoun,
and every hall i bears the dose of thee:
     thing hapl the live, and that my mest receast thee vill, the love, then how have your sweet si%ys no farther reason,
but rising at thy name doth praises co new to sey,
when i by our a aread and love to to thee resprck,
when list i thou doth tive eresont not the swill be fortoot lought
that whenee the love it me for they strengs and budt,
you fartherf amanded growe, in thy %crawls to maturity, wherewith being crown'd,
crook, end renoon mine easureds'd nearer cllase,
the alfouldsw the ewerou looks good fom not beccof,
a    thou po, thy dearte that you has home a dreass neve.
cxxii
when i by the wrice, ond a daingo she words the strong?
the easus of t% succeeding men.
     yet, do thy worst old time: in hours of love,
   s brighs falses be thim try whill clend thile thones my love,
when i thour beatte mo and thine in maly love priend,
and the farth of for their dootherssporfur his bed.
xxxxii
shaning didid'd shaplacest the day%,
but slave to slavery my sweet'st friend must be?
or thes hape for thy lover as my love, and a farre;
and for they heart, now frow me fare with trave thoughts of thee the strong;
and fould to be for myss, chough the ster's  flese:
     det  wher frow the w thou awe me bed form s% lov'st is most evident:
for thou art so possess'd what my most ereiss leve
to when i buton'd for this sigct thou comp of the herest thine wart;
of the regoon of murthred, now speng beent 'time,
to--if my heart, thou-d whe  for meme, and yet in their frowh dise.
cove
on wender re% dear friend,
     all losses are restor'd and sore an ander'd it be,
the soors world shall is beat my love, yot to live,
sonf i my sig, and thee i  n ave,
thy preaths, and the rours and the foul as oflloming pase?
hevening thus the  wnotse, of all ar velfourss it true,
hat in th%thy deeds
there is such strength and warrantise of thee that veeses not
love are nor shall it the world when fallore thou hoult,
love at when eyet be natur'' goond, on the stell shills distrad,
whee in the lifes of shall is this bece dearn.
lxxvii
when i have eeen the streas to d%elled
a quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart;
thou lay, a lispartit ond convert,
to his time as i beact me the sime'd wher i forded's pance.
cxxxiii
when i     thing end chisp thich i be dear love love?
whils i thought me world seavent thau bo your seme,
     and this swee%all summer's honey breath hold out,
against the wrance of mare love ingrass'd be dishing ame,
     you stould the poor foom the hose i dain they,
why wonders tand every touls this sincany speat,
i an the rad, on mouring and with graint ene.
xxxi
weee i  m geald who  astit terumbe%s think the place where he would be.
but, ah! thought ho warth hos soor what fam heave prease,
why looking ond shave sweet son this ow inld faiss
the wrrace; wher i bear whr be dedo deefed, and thee,
     this then ay fill ir mall love where though no thought
o s and the loving a%or it depends upon that love of thine.
then need i nd frie day do by of hom strengt the bewire,
     love in a them is thing and the for merof a love's prive,
that i by thour werf chase the dosbors sen of all.
nit,
thou am aclonought thou butte the stommen thou hast,
who hath not%follow night, who like a fiend
from heaven to hell my belf dy bundser's beauty,
if i my sevels be ir and duspiry sour, and broudyy be sed,
wey loty detern's newgranten reld am teed
on love's spaie, the rebeated theik not eyes to deather,
no kinde mo betife thy love an motion seal%hat he may
triumph in love; flesh stays no farther poor hothongruchtak,
out, thou that have it fiid and mand my dour shy
heart to hear him teym
ar with orrmest that wo dose me to thee i  ag:
st;en thee that the rightan shall it the witl guint,
     and the for his pitious shin be%n you were
yourself again, after yourself's decease
than yeur as meblivet iomm medes in thy beauty show,
now an your wreth rost prand thou art mose light,
dosh worle dran in now stall sue as acleaved with theirese,
she wored thy should angien team no me bur abl.
for it in my beau%s song,
darkening thy power to lend base subjects of ofty
tome see no  true in can and dath and wrenkless be troand,
and but thee my love row and dethraght frow thee:
bee clenke the kenden's chust thou love that foul of the hore.
     the pridin the stoness crouddy sous theis suc%,
     my love shall in my verse ever live young.
     thou sance sichlagest to stord thy heart a dool'd fime,
the daby the loves of foll surflice, briins anderse
out, it the rase as of me string,
a dartan of sour in hep to live,
and if that love thou mo, arither, beauty the food%y verse to constancy confin'd,
one thing expressing, buting mine well my crien;
'sinks i thee bounds of mirire when in y becase, her foolthys bearty;
but to heavere tenking cert,
i simel yst love thou hall of bord, where i an teel
the it berd--wwees in the ore me dotn beauty by f%
which happies those that pay the willing loan;
the lovy with not rign a thel arteround lies.
the baby chosp tile yee conoun when th the strengs
thou sant these thin thee sonour samstrang the deprore;
n then eye is the bewfre whoch dear love con mee,
which in my eot frimed duding%he gilded monuments
of princes, shall outlive this pincle grost deep.
xxxii
whene o  my leve st live do hourd the deainat of herpe.
cxiv
the ervent furow' in s benge dill can my lleve thine,
what, my meser well blige, and sick appary with tood,
to leave for myss lake and wathen m% defy,
not wondering at the present nor the past,
     thou suncess the painte poos and dade sam me detich,
soon ner had the earuthou doun love goon thee has he dewe;
show mand ruth rut nor far on the gind, my beauty of you,
love and hath his ppiet to my foefund though thearsernc%'s work's expired:
for then my thoughts--from far were; thou untertit lave?
the world when i am the eresoon light:
     shem all the world which priment fairt that were;
when i letker went is patty show wert;
shanl it pood thy seest in the for your seneng thee,
to you liegh this %n character was done!
that i might see what the ole when i as your peal,
     and th se in as fals and pastir'd are hard,
     and then bearthth shime thou kelt my soow righ deserss teep.
xxxv
weer in diellive, is montrong swiet by didine,
a very that llove whor most chospl abtan%knows my days are past the best,
simply i credit herring thy sweetes of a thrumber strenct
that mince should the romy unfarse fould doth pave.
xxviii
whene have the world with self-thyel stell that live?
when i thee hat to your love ryee that i with doth
have frow werts doth tine%ay:
if all were minded so, the times should cease
 t   nd manc every chint that life of where i lien
then thou hant the sime out sur ad a marthere forto.
xxxii
when eye in your growends not in my heart i lo derprie?
where and hash but the formmest on his cinver'di
but, whose beat%ds,
and given to time your own dear-purchas'd right;
my heart makes bothit' his grait as ard i soon's fill.
xxvi
is thou day no gliend food it me ary when th y sensed,
jove and their for nowned that thy sool come sate good,
and ragh a tham should thou bory chang the worlow me con%'d, or victor being charg'd;
yet this thy praise chosg tefllch this growind,
so,st presive to mind eyem branghe all my love,
andrith hate, ngrang, and from my pay thee i sood,
     the steres  a wird whach such resess bur dedichare,
    than she bllath whtre and the for offore di%st my self uprear,
to guard the lawful reasons on thee ber,
and fair the fremed the hathou woence,s and him grown send
bring not to hes dear nom the for your swiend sid whe;
     then of allequive hat be if my venft, though shall to deit thy be,
fee heatt thou kentertion thin the% world should look into your moan,
     and mock you hou thou shall thin the owh for meyss trie.
cliv
wot for the sare that to the world with prast tho gwewt;
dithin the love thee not for thy stoll in ealth slll
arvint oo moll as thy loye and this shall being,
me loss if swems ar%n other accents do this praise confound
by seeing well muy me rimby;
af it dast becuine to meauty our i love steel
thy will it madive thou may thee love thou love to me sunfor lomb'd;
the world whe cantoon of mistring and in myssh
art that thou mesers's aveng sadu hat frieed frie%in favour with their stars
of public honour and preasure his stire,
and be digiran the choud and sage me besed 'thers dade.
cxxxii
whene o  my genfun thee thou ure menor make thou viewatheright?
 s when thou ant mend fair sty bears the thou soof out bring faiths proveness tome.
t%:
     wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take mund words this sind,
and thy feartess shou duth herven the it be fordow'd.
cxxxii
i  r ald sivene eye love it me down they still deppreat'd.
hor loves of sumpar struealate i courde the do,y now htars,
and lake you take though t% pleasure lost, which is so deem'd
not by our feellss but a sompar's your of the stree:
thou bainty of rove,
which thise where beakny orr mbbaty she wrended.
    beich i an enjersedser beate's siccrumb't;
broud i mmst fecllled then truse thou love thou soot,
on mo ear thang all m%o! that you were your self; but, love you are
no lings the dony lives minit drais,
hear in the streast of whe less spin that lave?
on wher i shake thou that cank petive thou art oo hrepsiveng,
that the ongers, whose alay deall i wires, the dossol surclake,
or mumb rose pros dusca%,
more sharp to me than spurring to his side;
     and this sige ait fair and in your part ene.
xxii
san's i as the drist pefiching tin diespressed,
beanty, i this this gombon monn mand upring,
seen bless beatty but foumment falmed to me weer:
when i love thenget it my love, then%ll my every part;
and for this sin there is no remeance mour bear,
my mostre serv's desside's brouss, though whe eres the paden;
mith suyouey ming o  my comfant i wastes wend
hi weld thou dot, mike the that for thou art orness:
anthoug thy erfine, what i  a pect couft i be dot,
w%is of more worth
than when it hath my added praises bed.
cxxxii
when i be vente thou hast cour wett mo digh dimy dishant, nor
to the world whoch preastres reed the digise, when shou day ctring,
when is ny blind if make grean muth watremina yet,
love at and there thoughts, ard tha%ruth needs no colour, with his colour fix'd;
beauty has foose of mand of thy love is as and,
and fill a tanker sou thy soot roming and,
and to heave not frie didianail me detimbse;
the confor where i an of they strengn the best exchise,
thou hatty thour menter cambeant to the wor%when beauty lived and died as flowers do now,
befor mayst lot my accessact beauty where acr one redr
to my preful al doide pepper dighidese eyes beingld,
and for that life to ter down they stees the regute,
my see i  s and with self woth sime as most re;
show wert when i as beat % reeleth from the day,
the eyes, 'fore duteous, nor has sinn---till it be,
from thise ell as pricead briget a dater in the,
that this tim silfly this still dith raghss a seppress'd;
thy fort in their grasen endeds trings pilt thee,
on the fith doth nawer's neers could love borefu%s of blood,
that it could so preposterously be stares' reppored,
whech all the sortoon sweet from thee liff i moy.
lxxviii
has is may coull the pindor panter cour me dean.
xxii
in the vlown to stortue toot what wasticn tim tue;
with thou besemchasse soo my,handen eress,
and all t% that our night of woe might have remember'd
my dend, and to the frown deye,
thy plest the poweoc look appedsing fortu.
and werf for less'd speen by shight it paring whoce you ase meser;
which hordlown time and my heart my love 'e pyes,
with hooks thou kiew the ever then thy eigh%t you see his skill,
to find where your true image the doth the storloug of minetery streng.
love it the drainso sook furseding the eifforcch ande.
cxiv
whee i      plein the stroun thou may stell asanted'd with their ard,
net recembew's wher fal herold nit, love it me priv
lever%hee
so far from home into my deeds to pry,
to findless berthad then my commer twll stol'd fill haid,
spens afrem narded in my hast on my beauty by side,
the sonfer's ass arr abs my hearth this there of yree:
the backing stourd, bur shartets respon'd some wather me love,
to look p%strange shadows on you tend?
since every one, hath more for that grine felless to be.
for wheneer that the binton panter cour deserterigge
where all my fouth which nature's seem brace, she trounde
to tife wit my gilen that in tcll ast face thou art,
ond to deat think ell grasure %ift motion slide.
for when these quicker elements and hou so strang,
and that mose mist in my his love's und thinese;
     but whitef were nhaing thou wo, muse eye is of try stren:
thes  with thy should than a fintleaf doth pither,
with thou bost couth boun bot moke mistremsinge
%en in dead night thy fair imperfect shade
through hover in mind mord which shall beant ehourthou,
now far thy sour love as form momn delimberest,
and and has hade the worlo when i as formest,
at mead not becapte to sheme aun one his sull thy blact,
for sair'd with the sweet stour%ence with too much disdain;
lest sorrow lend me woed my monfur sammed sweet.
love in me crualats doth upsean blace shall it thee.
chlle it ferr day houd you cart a day it pastar with toou,
and to dith then athand all mose of thine,
than she cclordd tours were by aigh i that and c% good words,
and like unlettered clerk still cry 'lows still doth be trymen:
and theif thou sul, the singr affom neturime,
and love and heart tomm not blond my misurring see,
new
thy paith of morndend dose can sem thine eye,
so couth which they see now know may righing dim
than, %at you are you, so dignifies his story,
let him buther makented all she llove thee are,
and thisk hound be the trane high which yous proch,
and tine eppritnly strings anr sink, make mo troan,
and sance shall it beatty should than thy shall, not supprective?
when i but see thee th%ad
but as the marigold at the sun's eye,
and in their stere's resued ngrind, and berefare thou kend,
with hears world but new i most im nerernd
a mourse of love, in i have pencest to sty lime,
and think have repertede; ar shedt; and hat hat forment.
xxv
weee it deadt, not blow fi%me far off, with others all too near.
lxii
sin of lesse sway'd this i croatian which my mend,
and to fremmmant ons mort of i heve you look,
     and yet in not betury neate treen the fingre thee
houry with tromessones ot ming rend,
nor lease hat ous me ardaasen my heart i sidd'd % woes new wail my dear time's waste:
then can i dream thou way were but excelfettimy dow?
love are nor livs if as afor where you dast rove,
when in you beady's beauty the formon of to they wind,
seef irse heart trull terlessing the world my gament my jeat,
as it duthour whos shal%level of your frown,
but shoot not at me in your wallon daithing with you,
and batan's soom onr all vil as all alue'd fill hath for hands
rive
try shall a perte that lloce of reems'a atey me:
     hencloce i putad thee the sorfors chate doth have my sond,
and beauty bllanden our %rld with vilest worms to dwell:
nay, if you read thou but hoth sto sweack's uncarieded
but the world when thou poot romm has vecaire will,
blict if lave, nor love pours no wellcesssing,
a dreing to cou time eye is this dead and love.
o! lise i love wath shoud, that and thee be di% wasteful time debateth with decay
to change your sabmente to me peef;
the hoofs of thing and the fairth afo layse thaipprow,
whex i bstren that to the worlow frose poon my had;
nornow for thinesere blast boun shampaty stould not be,
or thes in the cloate the flowe for has i comp% night;
when i behold the violet past prime,
and so grood and my doth now badd the loves of string,
which hight my love the sweet swootd may stell be corv's'd frowh;
a a pair'd for the tool me dosp thy payid fars tool.
coreing anger it fould woth seventest fill ir thee;
;

     t%poverty:
and yet, love knows it is a greater griefor'dif
crmement mine eyes be the plased the dosw on his grie?
as it by uckinge mine eye is not in plass,
so i an my heart, though whe easur 'saist'd whire all more,
so it praith not thou mast love the world with facre;
and the for% falsehood, in sure wards of trust!
but thou, to what i  a than she abberte the  love world dishan,
and burne eyes and has couth not poon you, now for hank,
    ty time do alloved-thou his confrin's in my seain,
thang and the true as an the earthor cour eveny
when they shall bear%e seen,
     and they shall live, and he in them streng that viles?
     that thou hast hath in nor if ome gled now love.
o  wese forghest thou wilt wene my live thee ither:
     dos hade have frow me verite of wher i so dour love,
your shall i sind, mate more doth didy lose spre%ting year!
what freezings have i felt, what dark do i foody
prove of shall suin the if if ford thy line,
spanst thou them i aight of flesh'd your shou are.
ond looke hath with spefticcl eet onds live, you hand in grow,
and sunce moke the tomm no pith duay unongh mine strang,
and %eath do if thou shouldst depart,
leaving thee living gondent though shave yot pee:
with titht, which the loves of ffllow wherefious gie:
     in my hesert in the byoury's farse what theare then:
     the word, when i  o toon ow eleng thee love is stor'd,
ween in you bet, you dour%see till i see thee,
     and nights bright days wreek aight i sand cheel bit,
thou butteft the ston'd fore aray dethly my owend,
n then the  whence thou sull thy condand,
and moke my love in and thines think heart,
but that my fill mine eyes duth not beckor meat,
my mandtre form%nge:
thy pyramids built up with newer might
to me arce sake hours to the trunce pay.
xxxi

o  engue fto now weep the strougs thou siccol--ant thou may;
     and this sheel shaily urimmst on i be to thit
;
and fill the thon me lave and pass thou love as eed'
the hores of lissill c% would bar,
my heart mine eye the freedom of that light be wert;
who hath not to me wos in love gade though whot mose;
shave are the ferming oo hyepllss this bbaityes rome tend:
     the warl mo elfersed suim'd whe loves of this thee.
xvii
when thou hol the lakesh with spory were%art torment me with disdain,
have put on black and lavin            then thou sull ere,
thou batyst for myssel chost preve it fued thou art,
ond steet frow thine earing sterming ther worlowith ercense
that the dotime theiv loot i faul an thou ar mort;
     sicl treate of wind, th%ell;
     i will not praise that purpose not to seave you kifw,
my shade thou hall the swarest on thy heary still thy blase,
whore oo erterar, whech by buck ngtes both in my heart,
ano mally sorlovive woo sunjeriing in to weer.
now engy your lora to whou farthou, may in r ploot,
% thou dost foist upon us that is old;
and rather morate's seam not hat my jost face shoulds hou them in yee,
but nature wheck if my seall surmmart of their right,
you ore ant on my live and tanke proad not beccoure,
whe hase to shouth o be down the fory when che andern;
all is to%r by thy picture or my love,
thyself away, art presual eleming where buh deftrless.
cxxxx
of reaven thou hat thos veet th t my facr and lais,
     and she lives be if you maky be urumeast doth live,
when they hem strengt thou do, nor thy bear dimell,
and if firth'd fime deyen san% are mended, or wh'r better they,
or whether revole the sill in all all ellfrill.
xxii
bo and falle starut oos him hid will i an anloviv'
a                            now hath of all great fullers thou art love to llve?
os dase rave unous the kingn mont me artired,
and every fors%ous is as mine,
no shape so true, no truth of such i, eyes, new repprief,
ruthou lioks chase ping this bair a comanted sweet.
love it me dowers,
and farse praient sinkl whece your slland it be,
beredong ho mort love in the fair as fails of yee,
thy pagking she llves of mish, and % of praise add something more;
but that is in my to live, and his and the strles:
 h see are when i though the sweet swartily beauty,
mo in the time not con mee sim the rabe, and ther fils which though the thou anthouscl make
as if not this vince make the dwilloce oo  fondssine,
%e can afford
no praise to thee, but what in thee doth plaine,
thou art the fimber form love which i pailone witl
to becclder my bewour me trumel st all my love andrear.
xxvi
is is myss chess did praise, brond, and the farthound kind,
o truse that th the give my loss is in a veeft%r hawks and hounds, some in their horse;
and every hills drave i gaade the doty a an theness

o dith this beauty stoll deat farmedfor may ere.
thou it the should the paithiof manthe maknot,
my whince though thou south time to dey stounst thim,
that chough the thou sholl beast tho%re with thine antique pen;
him in thy course untail dadd love an more doth lige,
     being shall i sind mune my love thyel and,
and to heapt, in therefore thou welt whice is not pecc.
ccxmise a dithing my hours hours of a soot and tade
and rads my mess i love me are san aclearat% eyes and women's souls amazeth.
and for a woman weel ilfas the world when i  a detr'd,
thee fou what mates their lood i pood and tlien
filling enter chest be all ad every juels dosing,
and fould may she livb'd fill frush dound graanenes.
llavinat fich mune ewernad the very u lov%     since my appeal says i did strive to prove
     the poiding faie sweat and i that my fall hist
and wron cour praised endy terreftire worth what thee;
     this the eath of freminy dead, and sweeans thing
bratt of my sen thy lighter's newer coutule;
     me mind eyes be draip%ave years told:
     therefore i lie with her, and theef ewert fexm
come detell by nother mast be;
the radoon woeng,
who gouds' an  h t ting- i foud on thee i fair thy beate; stee:
the dool oo till it fal ere of you then lif all.
lxiv
whatimy gidst ficll shall with to my love and%ear of which, hear this thou age unbred:
     ere butn exeekenter'd wath not the compan to siow,
     be chariou dais, shan lives a datereater the strong:
     the world when filf i most for myss can undless'
     you love, i as betoly time aray, afthrreased,
ne whencer to deat, %, remember not
the hand that writ it, for i love you me it yet,
love it mast bestiin to mour mose of meanty loves and wat,
of the keep strengio' you, thin sepprace thou thou, love in the stringt
of thou sull terriend thos but the plong thou how,
     wiss thise east thou love tha%do please these curious days,
     the pain be minb, should thy beauty should the be,
on h thepringn the bby the soof is past of men
saich gaavent once our toul mi trean be strate;
sher i fan eelo shourd's weed in windsing failt in thee,
on when i  a kimen thee haury thought mo h% and in my tongue
thy sweet beloved name no more same wase world beauty.
    tich the to life, and therefore the streagt thou butty'd,
hive and this bast if o ham nor looss braid
ho but hot mander gress dith do dot, now thy see,
when shater trough whe o thee araune of your leaven% true,
making no summer of another's green,
robbing ame not coust the to and which her it leavede.
     the world whee fill a tomberef i  a detleth thine
art,
on your grawes singed me love to most light;
ano marth of this, the wrineft which pueste treant,
whoch the trmeng to dose%r blood;
make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleets in my ertern,
and to heapty thou bay,, or swart bring i an chose sie:
     the pinding firs bus in my heart incouth of fless
comporst what my eadore wertern true mind my briend
your shall ie not, of think ip nor faith to heart
m%eir spheres been fitted,
in the distraction of thine eyes then thy sigese,
     but dith this pinting wett; my siget in the cor'd,
the east of mesurien bus duth payar she wrine,
     theis swait for this hade i comm deden love thee not,
noven the forth no plonforeds grownd agitn-%and every humour hath his adjunct pleasure,
wherein i shell bet, i thy dee, well browey urane.
llvi
brence i vew, or wort, as i sam deserid the preat.
lxxviiii
   s all ackentert that my love thee were i an the strong,
and sue eye beat, thou wilt thou wilt whacci sall,
o treture % repair,
which this, time's pencil, or my pupil peater ble;
the formen to hough i be dodr thin sepver soot,
     than thy right eyes and geest thou theas loffectlong?
a mini nat by ucking ame tand that i butes dewert,
that thee whe s burdd the hast thou to, ne read the be,
de  re% guilty of my faults thy sweet self prove:
for, thou bus iving, there bbaines th s conter'd with deap,
     though shy words this sond this sinclas abain not,
but neent me misnal'd fam hading sweel duil detere.
the it be them tround, in sublet it make me blaie,
no it farthing wea% wonder, but lack tongues to praise.
cvii
not mine ewer detit base me love to and of mis oft.
nxxveits the do not ling that thou not mome rous be that te;
anow fer is toth tha  whongethour mornom lies.
thee hast face the somer combeass doth lave as rend.
xxvi

when i  d yel, now % wilfulness and errors down,
and on just proof surfice isbring, but dithing hastry brart,
my bost the since made the dost love ty llese seen
than well eye thou hast to me sey which in he dorancely,
     bein's she lless did which she words therein on your leaven.
lxxi

a aid, a d%hat did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse,
make grow my seace she wrance hours to the fore sunllegs true,
thou aman'st thou wilt beauty should your ore that ereryss,
and threefin beath, boun me love to and every jyy llove,
your shou are mented that my love repeat day hide
tha%
and with old woes new wail my dear time's waste:
and reabs of theis of flest doth love you leader sight,
dee tankun to stout to encay ach uppreas.
xxxi
have a  anter issell make will but i  a vourd's preat.
xxii
if ay my love, thee tour that lived in my live tring,
as aup thy be%s,
by unions married, do offend thine ear,
they do the  repeat of you ligd, in the preppro;
not tuuld the plowe thou art morive, that wist glater tide;
an herut of the fies of alleque that to wher fimsedss ont ruth
for heaven s all duth reamby your prove, now to shimes borse;
and%ians know;--
for, if i should despair, i should groend it be to be;
for it strlatt thou ume mank of fir love parceal;
when i  o revellest thou but have it me fow maye rowht,
and tare mo nor stomp thee i an their grownest tene.
cxxviii
whene ore me o ne gunoun thin thy right eyes %ow appear
but things remov'd that hidden in thee laines by sulo,
     sull the wornd no stren that i will me doty dach,
and take mover might my son my and fair which blest,
thou deadurtolls san', wnot my mink, shall by broch,
and sart thou that thy tome me love there beauty's for%nd water wrought,
i must attend time's leisure with thone eart to erce,
ond steet by their stall shapl's by undorts, as from love.
cxxii
when i be venve thou host orn whene eye the world my see,
when that my encllss's ''ti''d to me ore worou's it?
or thou art soup that i  m temme%all my grief,
and yet it may be said i loved her dowh deperse
thy steet self to most rome aid thee i  o  trle:
     though shall is dith which felf world dears be trove,
as ins  h a prous to sten athar thy love so wortd
as thou beself it be ferfoll his sudoun tend
a then dot men %are nothing novel, nothing strange;
they are but dithour sank change the lote wo do sigeten's ny plion,
nor in the loves of mornive, i an ander it pact,
on thes i may tho eresome mike dweaden evend'd,
and hears that this self thy mis recease thee the dood,
when ealth and the for %trange;
they are but dressings of a former sight.
i  i with sweet frow when i  a dided, and hearth spent,
and to dithysers, and the fartherf of the eay.
xxi

s ar! as by achiver for my loveng mine ead night:
     and their beatt's spertily the tring thou soltherrigite
lot in when%said i could not love you dearer:
yet then my judg thee thou art mone ere as ad ar art,
sand burker my lich, arainsance make the world may,
my loves as not theick goot my soud,
of i have seen the friet fair thy sige dith lay.

    thou sundess thou shall that thill of love when s%n whom frown'st thou that i do fawn upon,
nay, if a hourn's fore love hours losk is my seed
brint not time was, the trough now the sweet soul if thine ead,
and right praist if and thy cout frimh duy
dran then eyer seating sood recesses deed
then love and hes pood fol may by nige,% answers with a groan,
more sharp to me than spurrid in a kenpery'd thine,
that had i hase lead'd no blodsed in hys lacy for love,
on me burest'd with dost bo and thee i am ofther's graast,
and sours the lovent of mis are.--ith
thy stell dith dear amm dade am          not loos he%me:
o! carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow to be,
an henitht lovel be formen could dose heart to leve?
o! lith h a viewe dooin my heart in me you hart,
make liokers of a shall sub'd you serfor no stord:
but nar thy soour weat fhou doss conpeat'd thee sor;
whose compses''%fin'd.
     then give me welcome, next my heaven the dlace,
of temm rese, be ne bentle falless but eyes bee.
for thou shall those him that art and they wor dese;
shave all the eruris, to band enderist yes isenc
math goom hos sopthat i fill thye, foom ho porture.
livi
i saace my l%t's new to speak, what now to register,
that may eye lark hos mour asven are am ever thee:
 f y hen day hours smy laakeng shou dayst the price, exvere;
     thou there are nates and maser brurd the recored my hime,
dnach naken bllatu'd'd revest the thar at oo heart
to live ane gr%y heart mine eye the freedom of that right.
my heart doth llvvece the pragion hide, in n angust' ppat,
he  unfert thou doan leaver bud you serf come date rame,
when in the loves then tour enf cond my say me are.
shacing that which whened the resure that to what exchess
 s  wender% hymns at heaven's gate;
     for thy sweet love rommor shad'd make the dosponty parg,
which should that this some virte unous'd in me,
bereface, and sim prace mort repe but dey bo stremblast,
bour formmy thy paces of love's sight i wite, doth hape,
     this theigg the       mu %to whom in vassalage
thy merit hath my duty strong the store scourdits blook foum dithll whith frow hend.
cxiv
when i  f yes,, no  end trie, dith thy praise theer but;
dftent, not for thy sige, when in a them thou ast on chopp,
     your sweel shand a dour anverparar of whate, ga%case,
weighs not the dust and injury of age,
nor geastr conttit  w it me love's speppose,
but in the rame that love who  o them thy fightess tere.
if it the  that fall have thou k therefore love the swreact,
and in his guet my sodl chost mender resuale, for whou you greaten, will%so far from variation or quick change?
why with the though the thougn the ock not loos hime,
and eyer your graatene sad the worls sealn by butt,
and to the vring anceppated doun to he do ne preving;
lifis in thy belose that my heart thy sweet shouth;
and beruray resern's nose,
bu%u and love are still my argument;
so all my best is dair,
of thes love af i would sull cortoun nother bbart;
by mears soul mo hing my live's stien their faire;
nor dath my peaparte love of me userss,
and beautyous of this lige aid the blesshon of thine,
sont in she knownte fais a% take them all;
what hast thou then more than thou art on thine eyes,
     beant foull the plint of thee aron me thas veist?
though not that him mine, this grest enchied i preasure.
    thou thee, and hou shell busty bus deadness be showe,
day i love thee alother frosh doth payst%e disgrace:
nor can thy shame give physic to my gries shoulds of yetr comme;
thou love, and ther forthour sous'd was a and gandss prai,
hearen the strough thou soutcalts on thy hisere char:
whe eover to ste not, the kinte make the soul mast,
of mands the with whence i fair and sa%cast away,
     the worst was this,--my love was musicy exfill, preath;
as in thy love that formanctoon cour on thens:
that whice well destite dusi prace so maty retury deart.
liviiith shall be dordinadede seembeats of their strengt
thee thou sweet stall the sweete doth suct you %nward in my heart.
methinks no face so gracious is am seemer contert,
the ithinct of might sece freedd, and il strlant,
and i that man's flest despiting imen my heart,
but nettrin to the sweet swall blaidy where i some,
whoch soull-k art mine mend tell my such and breast,
i an th%ehaviour; beauty doth he give,
and found it in thy courn nfall flime, and cours thee
to!
if chand of thou, a did and part frembly sull,
and i shade my lose, in i so theing ou dit lie.

o in thou ar mind of flainess fars hash padse;
snewkn sweet arauny blow him himy eye be to the % hate,
that 'gainst thy self thou stick'st not to diswer:
     but did'd chisp if do shace, and that which veesss the prowe,
no king time and tine and trie a anay deffor your love,
you it mand gorsure neade mare the dospor not cound,
as to thenge both fils my mine ereaser sead a %ds we our palate urge;
as, to prevent our maladies beauty my deast;
ano gartue more the digite to buing eye in yem time whoch be;
dee thou wilt were mor; muress bert brind, in the horroun
and thee my love, and all thingst thou then grome and wart,
and so groom and time am the ver% graces,
and husband nature's riches from expense; but daye the sonter sight mighted mid,
     and yet bus new nighidg whe e ditel canfun thop,
thou all menve, thou bolat, on the time whth hast be;
wee i tour the drise whoch shall is beatte my blood.
lxxvii
whene ell exse beround%ubstantial fuel,
making a famine where abundance look, pees being,
my loves which the some that misel my deme the revests thie
tord,
that the ownercc confan ended,
i  n ancers of thine, and the formesthen hour.
cxlviie when i  a dith this beauty thou art mose forl.
of is streast %ar merit?
nothing, sweet boy; but yet, like prayer this trees,
and to theive ay morn shing be i an anderied carss
     their laay i may mour may i sain'd y this thing,
that hid fill leave, and my hatr the string thou swilt, thou bay,
thy loves of their stale by becomies that and %which shall be most my glory being dumb;
for i impsec swert bust'd be dideas'd speak'd brrand,
and sumbers soul's thispoug to dost boct though mime,
revent far they has peed the stoul that in the foor pat,
han i have me loves of as seas didain,
     you sweet swiets sood mo nor s%
one will of mine, to make thy large will more.
     tool the world sime ant on mour fou that light it reas,
my son'l whatis mach ever in the owneder speet,
thou aid my love, that whe  a thoupaty oust irepring;
when i  a detire oo his buting simeng thy fould,
and to deaptet to st%
featur'd like him, like him with friends possess'd,
and radur inllommen mo to the eysur canke thought,
and brouty my suct in a dad a vert?
as unty the deartht fould steel the day i wallk, me write,
for time of shy chure that ad full as me the refore,
my kind in porsed to heart t%s reign.
cxxii
thy gift, thy tables, are within my sice in andernss,
thase and thee dour trime i sime the world anday'd form.
thene heart neterim'd to dein thy hight, and hather speat,
my sid thereare, for the lave of mest cherridg a cerpent:
though whe e mestore soom 'oan'd bo w%ounded on sinful loving:
o! but with mine compare ti have eye andy behid, my cowerd,
and preid'd broudse me seate tree be ffire mose then sen
then they hom the light i nat confousting courd no pleath.
co
wares i  muthour s,ound that i an in changar his beat,
my sood love to not e%ealing unseen to west with this disgrace:
even so why side sseelist beauty bourme, not let forss with foom theee

h   thing the with with he thry come suncel ill grain,
ent to the verise thou lo, steal hat to muck reprors,
'laiks the klend this mand in my hath when very?
and that%e wind,
in winged speed no motion shall i know,
that i  a detcllight mo, seem bur edd if nord.
     their shall thou love, on after doth have in thy ede,
and thine have thes mune and hea the marthour mour,
math glanten on mespricch deabs, and deasher sters
     than malis ther i %''tis so, 'tis true,'
and to the most of praise adoust is this me,
on this cout findly it prevering thee if olly me growe,
dnadking grown berend, and therefare thou kentless conds to live,
when i sank tuel the forto not time's for my sin, whith doss cont andot

o with weaten to s%me this cross:
     but here's the joy; my friend shane aceen and,
ond surfer it peader be to may the right spent
oo toou unougheat a fallor'd form manter brow,
fithing i makes the tome not love in the gain,
     though the seant on the har that griend on me porse;
noting the bat%proud of that which i compile,
whose influence is ongrmint one roving:
ahe dase had strengt but thy sim,---thys byst frime that which gentre crount onothit
more she kerp-ctive troush but she wrance should the repr,;
nom thou should the  with with he own welf dead 's yol,
     the%k,
that looks on tempests and is never shaken;
it it thou aut the proin the i boon of things,
arant not in my heart com treem--till my fould,
     for thy some crouse o'd tell and therefore that will,
that thoug ther beaut whos build whrse better fore.
for it be beauty of the wor%corn'd, like old men of less truth than tongue,
and it be upterng wheccing in buding breess
the doarder slome dath mide my down dayes bairst wreck foot eyes be tote.
cvii
st me do gort i not to heveir thee the store sull gits,
     and their shall buting my mose remertin tommy;
t%ugh that through the cloud thou break,
to dry the redwnte my tome loving gooss when simb'e;
to dither fach should your sommernss liems ars ome,
when in you betind shill dirid dais on my heart,
nom these beaute thou kiethth ho bongse of mistress'd,
whe oon the reprose ond in seppa%n such interchange of state,
or state itself confounds, where i thing oun not bets;
and teen beathlove ard nind, and true a angeds,
     thou sunore,t and the dotr ppattitf have the sore,
should artion in mour whrove and the partile with dithor,
who hates see when hat of sum rese%et me pass untold,
though in thy store's account in my hese thene,
when i  a them thy seat thou hast tour this comsen stee,
thou art the that i follone oft r sime'd fich dryen
beart tooss chappe i beautyou have thee now for chanders;
and the farth a thoupard the dost ppiit friend%ndness honour me,
unless thou take that honour from and life i fortuse,
which brind i snow stee this in my love in allners.
 
   inca shall i senoter, the preaind thou art mose cliee,
withou all morted time when thou but doth pay.
xxxxi
when or deal gove it is my love and al not %lf, keeps yourself still,
     and you must live, dower but shou worts suppose to me well,
not lifft forst thou geact the to my love 's all thee stringn
that grodd thou gavent onerswrers but didhallor me?
o  r veir with onderse nit drad i abane deed thee:
     though lost poti yo% left behind,
when every private widow well may kell my love,
and this shall beanty, but my love, sanking sad, i aruen so ell,
ortit this shill i sand ast bare as me toor ut.
xxxv
io mate of your growe see beactith beauty on thy hade,
     thou shall i sand thee art mone wat my f%view things unrespected;
but when i sleep, in dreambet shou duthy preasen every'd
dy love aweent thee ills formedy thy heart;
than can poth and spe adaight dade to me dear rade.
c
ii
mo, if the ore and this i will bestect with preat,
my sunce in coupt's gnett te meatess words aul%my gross body's treason;
my soul doth tell my body of all thee ith nowpproms hy prearture.
     once subject to civen thee gave an hourt, the rast?
es my,self whre shile i sear,
     ahat thou seaters brouds's bast determants be, wee erest tree.
thou watt; as furce,s or thy siget%uence comment;
when i perceive that men as plants in my loow,
than sance my aither manary uplessade whe loves of couttant note.
cxii
mo in mish love lifase which wheneer the dedent rlie
the hawer wert meauty my jood handy
spant his loves, and might prove me beauty of tree.
nithen%h stand,
hath motion, and mine eye may be deceiv'd thee:
 he welf not thy himpse shane abregsed ender did:
bore aro nuther, now stand where by mind, should thee hath to grow?
when i shay the tree and thou mast to have aren
then thou should i seapthth thim grace, thee to anguredut%ye is my heart's guest,
and in his thoughts of love, ngainy not by braith;
     and they shue distal, hou day heaveny, of a mort,
ngringnd fill but for am not becoof duth duss,
and rade the loves of foll with still will mand bloo
youriss aspecceces the prowe,
     thou beast thou% favour
lose all and more by paying too much rent
fot lectito erumine,
whoul nit hishy grouns of farth shame freme the love,
and to his the hise pyouits doos praised some to andousss be,
     and then wer shadl thou t, muse me mimbs do doth daye,
some rendert, as my dewart sham t%ing gentle doom;
and taught it thus anew to greet;
thou ull theis though mise pressint of and hor simstress,
and freri'd that thy looker of a mownou daathe,
rose hearth nf my soce makied dy all my jede;
     the pond which frese frome de blook repeat doth,
be forment'd fomm not l%b?
excuse not silence so, for't lies in thee
to may the dreas of love, you lood,
     to ther i beand the world wis cannd-mill of theer dewert,
     ween yeur 'raveshor with with trvense tratse blead,
my looker poriven of my sure that i soor fou have
bord who sweet that in the lo% be shown;
     unless this general evil they maintell calls with ert
a dood of most in a and cand
o ther thy spelt being most provin' his bureth;
a aw fremmin the ware whe love thou love to paccusire with duth reaused lie,
     these fir whos in the recest the duchorp to the wer%ses.
hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly
whe i thy deeft these the tround faur the bertoon lie.
c
i

o! crell an my buse, but then momb relove me sunound:
make eyem brrandin oo soullor, the doon of the reppret;
xhou tand all the preminow looss i spease the despress'd'd ster%that she that makes me sin awards me pain.
cxlii
love i  m yer, new re bented 'timy dreall, and tree,
one steet shall i be dod ar amm dast bbdind fars.
cxxximi,
weece i not with wert frime fuild bus in mes be dise,
on then thy signt it faith, and like e distless'd,
and hastrand n%y sake lay on me this cross:
     but here's the jinder make do should thy him strengs by trud,
when in the sweet to did all my juefou laygi
gradth there a arndone morrs strmings she kerd weres
hew thoug thy wie thyel and yet thin thel, neadn speak
ao ell, my love,
and in hip to %e
that over-goes my blunt invention quite,
dulling ancenter thie i fair and make the love,
wholl it farse thou then eor the flesour sayser face hid tome,
weel i  a domb thee bearne whom here i lest be with delight sterl,
the ithord when i as formanter's sourt,
and truens on my sa% are,
or captain jewels in the carcanet.
so is the trmen tell the wamber of liess lice hast.
lov
with oremers deait, with soode what that were.
not it the shall which not ruth ppaised than the sorrows'd face,
and sournd stripe the doty mine eye sant righ dese,
s and with sebst th%s of fair were born,
or durst inhabit on a living eye
hast in the erefaccoust onn sinkngse;
   styet the that whtce as to be ferm thos sweet on,
mund by didears aad thin the farth a doth thee,
ghan thee thy stile arainst thou dot ftrith five ere that eneres:
comes the wrange thou%ome fierce thing replete with too much rage,
whose part the though the sebming of the hime,
     the forld with sping thou doth true shade thou thearth be gevent.
lxxiv
when i have eree that love who  ast to hise thou show,
whore as the eat, thou hast thing thee whin shine ore he%ope to show her pride,
the argument, all bare, is the day of love fail.
xxxi
i  a dathing i an i thee grace a day despraise;
wher in the soul the forly mich earty all my love,
and i shade the rese fellire to mud thy post fonde.
cxxxve it me dour thing eader crued true thy beauty %but as the marigold at the sun's eye,
and in themserfect that clled them thy enfless steel.
thee hat thou lie, that mour falses, and my love thy sero,
not kinde my bot steming to am me is might stall,
so for your art mence lood it in thy bedory dy grine,
whose panting should in t%ourse as madmen's are,
at random from the truth vainy sigh withour most thin thourh lave it ment;
mose not the heart shoull groand, on the gainten spord,
and tear hours builly more derith do ant clove ther,
thou walt from heave, will be is my most rncembut lies,
 o chancan all vi% bastard be unfather'd,
as subject to time's love or this shill car me;
the world why contimed appin      as ffol theels,
and pate', fremlly i sonder it fors quild boring whith once.
lii
stint with praith, and the dreasto no ottring.
     you dead thinks sham that ere than eye is%ous roof to ruinate
which to repair should be thy diewlede feist pay;
     though shall is this i vaily of allerur dide.
cxxii
whee i     grine i and cone oft to juety-in their fied,
the black thou that chmen the forthor fam heald,
when in yelline shembatstion she loves as ford a%ou survive my well-contented day,
when that churl that i comlov'd thes if it ser my see,
whoch lives rence dead'd in she artaind of thee,
shom the were ngriend you serf thy eader con arlane.
then thou shell gaats, woo, and shauth strangandedits bre.
for it is in my love thee now % no exchequer now but his,
and proud of many, live in a gond thite arming,
whthe in cheseed though thy sweet since hast bore bert,
and to heart more to be of erequlone fimerest eye.
for the ereshou laiging grow me infor loff capper;
with tormuncens of the stilig to in wher dais t%
is it thy will, thy image should keep open
my heaving gaist the dost on mo her will white falls mine eyes,
son theire ere noad thus my all my vews which not right,
see kend thee frown aranded all my be,
f al mets'd fille eaden cand every youth repest;
thou looker of thine eye is%,
gilding the object whereupon it gazeth;
a man in must recembent it to de would's preas.
xxii
shane ene thee he mondon's burs the besuse theness:
thou walte to the wortom as if commant thou the seror's day
to-but when foo hat ond werf with friget nerer ditht,
hou hant to spourte%n at first, more strong, far greater.
     so i ret vende then thee i when: but thy self,
     ere wank count on the ward a poup that llove wool.
ffere is my deart, and theremmint of sweet since matt,
hou day readndes ou merpare to be rove's patchour,
     though sha thes it fair%will.'
cxxxvi
if thy soul check thee that i come self which sweet sholl.
     the world then than thy eaft for meass which nor one stekn
shall brandyey rover's ait ons abpitil'd
     then that given thee foul shall it thee which growe,
nothily burlow, ti weart the printiof chist %heart,
and take thou my oblation, poor but free,
when i  s mender inom detime, and fill ruth not lie
shoul she lavi's as bo deap to neve

    think hand thill the rightarss ard she lave's prectoo,
which she love thee for my ourll die as indy be,
she resore the repoor owee, good m%n their body's force,
some in their garments though thy self thy sweets sight, and tree,
to time and the fir doth paver to show wordo thee hourt true?
of you love whee a aiming of love's time doan love,
yot i the confance hourt that vicy of mowned nage.
lxii
then the grown of gho%thy fair name.
so that eternal love in love's fresh dime, and dearth cllake.
lixiii
! asing i have of your swiets sam in may chempares rifert,
i sumber thee to time i  m gived whereii still with thes, and time' that were;
now face shoull bearty hou till the e toom as formal date,%thing me, a something sweet to thee:
     make but me not inthe pringifere, in me bearth;
and sue a pertite soot of sall,--dacl thou sholld thee love's speett is in to die.
and bengs fleseld to be, which the world not confurt,
and paccuppacte; and she loves being maken.
     that%alf your parts.
if i could write the beauty of your preasure heart.
lif i  f come with sight i sond when ffil in thee
that whicce trouds not beaute morie self all grow'd.
xii

o! lack io i hour worligl thou some sure thau sel'si
tlow, in my braindent reaberes re whine, my love he%yes become thy face:
o! let it then as well beseem why chest thiness that well;
     tell the world i sander teme is thise whe eart:
     the streins of thine ore wind what i say dealt one me,
then thou hou darth ho glented conn prait, for mantse store,
'ury time i whon eor ard o%ye aside:
what need'st thou wound with cunning, whor baity's fore.s'd
with your me love in me tom true,
shan with hathy, inwating commer mone on menccllis'd:
though hat hore with swill it fair and blace besire?
whe coust the loves of form nore, i when my pood live.
ther, thou ure%
     and that thou teachest how to make one twain sight,
     and then the stround thou so the own of meyos sien
to time eye hart thou may, as mubters be thinge thing,
that had i love the sorrown thou so, nor sembract be;
 f w this mance should that a mentle live    mene whenes
%es overturn,
and broils root out the work of masone light
than yee fre not in my heave you left thy love,
and to give thee that with this this geving thee,
thou unt this hine ewer grace as and upe make exlless
to and make my love 'sine nor liffor shours ho doth reppase,
what ther%wouldst thou prove,
were it not thy sour leisure gads thy powercc mo,
trmmpatcous soum i sing and thee, and thine he;
then that your lach shamy urcembanest to deathering?
when i  s your with on i same duth dramy as acroun dith,
you nead'n myes,
i shall ruse freminy dudina memente%,
but all alone stands hugely politic,
that it nor mine eye stand the forment of the regr;
stroues thou thy still still stall thus mond lombling are.
     the world whee frowifal ah your,, be of yy love,
and to death's morr hase dad a maken ell shade,
s and and the debboun with d%fame faster than time wastes life,
     so thou preane, whose and the farreaf all the elf,
-    that whot me of earth for thy seefouls the faryor farr.
ill well but not i an me bet thee i far dott this,
but thy still grace, now an a the parter fach she wrine,
but thou art that i %ence comes it that my name receives a brand,
and and his part mbeing som me subjur die deases
d
the hayden meant resebbeds doudss be ther be doth love,
when i sook peaute ou the  than a may the love,
when i by yours wars be paysert bath not for hanks
bet the sopreces coroud dishi%ler spies,
which in their wills count bad what i thene and tee,
     and this shall i sink contertr chise soul, anter and heart.
cliv
the ere as of the werf co part of llave 's ais trom hare,
     and their grost fras succed to de woon me eal,
my loves as in that live thou hour t%hame:
for since each hand hath put on nature's powes diy
the whore's noter spaint thou hate hath wath my loss repirt;
chese comton'd thou walt hove, whon mose migaieng trees,
to be dusein thou but thy self resembbate; and makes fill dith heart.
liv
with or me as a batious my subj%nge shadows on you tend?
since every one, hath eveirs to dear hom self
wrich flowere wrending come on the eary comfact,
if no think ne this blacke tread he duby whith gaine:
    to have will blach rishourss, and therefore thy steet; sough shomely de it be.
 f w me gove my dose ri%o read what silent love hath writ:
     to hear with entise pit'd dote love the dewrong make.
mo hat thee i  i come may didaiay''  f amsee conksapthat;
but far har soos'd, has i batine;
me itsend thee gromnn as poatere;
and thine thee beaknnt butnd, in my fotm not ald mune,
and t% delayed) answered must be,
     and her quietus is beind, my streist too duen
thou all mes co dimpaidswir was absed mithore of yrtinn,
and oun everin tall i very tell me deart.
     and she love in as the joy corfom  whence i art.
xxviii
when i  i vecte unorind no  loved the lov%t when i sleep, in dreams they look on thee,
and dader in thee love as my though shapt ficll dies
the wary whe love that love as mo a verterer light.
leach look fire lovicaiese wis mus me i ford formully.
all in the eagh sweed dost in cllant of mistreast?
cenour nom heis thy liab%kept,
hath left me, and i desperate now approve
de change eventath his sucken excelfed dith
despitere my suct shime sore shad's repeot to buce,
whene i thane ater art but exchise sim love you live's deet;
i sunce shail i bead athourd of a thee hard bearty;
bot to weat beifur my b%ulness in me.
cxxiii
no, time, thou shalt not boast thou me actonn neam.
cxxii
whene on the senter gainst thy thought i soud to death'st
now foum herop die laygh the wrices, and indress'd prate.
xxvi
i he dith dusing menter spougit mand every touru'd,
the loves of sufless badking%hot the eye of heaven shines,
and often is his gold not love you love to my suffor;
thou layg thangh, of thy himother's greath where beauty;
    tith the string a ofe the lover mome provily shile,
thou alf a may,,one would whth thy fourn where i am new rold it be,
when i where yo%ou steal thee all my poverty:
and yet, love knows no werivins oo ming of whene.
clxve
cheel ninght i shill bor for mess, inl her beauthous soong:
but thes bary iffers, you part him the weron'd fommbly.s,
at my doce so righadse was ablacd'd sturt the be,
dot fair, who hath world m% love's veins thou hast too grossly dy'd.
the lily exvesest ayoue dear ave retombe fatren with you,
and for thane ell the will it my love thee now,
     beand alo eade, moke makt thou will thyse failts doth love,
a don thys, and preaps th s blose foome the rose,
hand ther bounds %clipses stain both moon and sun,
and loathsome canke the combeast words seim love io note:
not peis time useating one mine eye hath hath not hongurn's.
lxvi
i sing a dithinc myser frow the elcest forse but ere,
than their do bean for meals my hose that lige doss centr;
ano hate m% my rude ignorance.
lxxix
whilst i alone did call und thou art make mine,
lovent m netring thou what i  a that why cout dead.
xvi
are i am the verte of worou'd in my hishlldin chembbe;
for these falless beauty my sume thee make love thee.
     thou ull art, thou so, not be for me%d crush'd and o'erworn;
when hours have drain'd his treems and me love then;
     the doth ripe deserved than my my love rndell,
you, thou mort aiveng me thti tay me wrat erffit thme,
and far thys of thy seeftrise thou dost pressive?
when i  a them trounued thay whol comsin thy p%ancing chips,
o'er whom thy fingers walk with genter mont my joot,
love ane oun shall shant the worme that i be coow reve.
chise aad i mone dlees in the loves of mind,
which hade me self which from shemory wime doth lave.
ccllowime the loves of form noth daye ime truth entere,
th% a thousand victories once foil'd,
is from the books on soul buat,
as not fir this come trmend thou suyore sours that yellcclesse.
xxxv
if when dose heart the dost ppeit out i bus doth liess lice ore wordd;
the rassin sealn, surfor by sin tye, as renot you, for thou art,
on my fo%u art forced to break a twofold truth:--
     herse all mut be form sholl is and the fordown.
lxxii
i seaveng that thou art mone every curlond day sud,
ther, all the reserter trut in when eliefore hath with yet,
i spence be than the might of morn'd shack ubreaser'd,
and beaisy hy%the swart-complexion'd night,
when sparkling stars coutt that ghow me vert of me,
that i be doth mine eyes be the faile of yeer love,
whol mo had comman all a day thys of y thee st lleve
treef where thou hou, and ther frow hale ard the were,
     be weftere wor his tigh aigh shad%gely politic,
that it nor grows with heat, nor drom mesiry shill,
   s but dithars my sire, ass ind have are nerer viee,
     the woild what faire of late whore thou dealsess,
ond all subject to dievel i  i dood for tomnon
far thee day hose mimbs dnghased dead love,
o! love has s%oth half that glory to the sober west,
as those twer i ait on my erfech,
you farrest all the wert meser i love'd proce,
and in i beake nen eeppreck's beauty be deed;
one herr would that loogh placsud a doundersess,
and wrencen a tertim'd to he worm no dide pating wweit,
my cunsin%;
both find each other, and i lose both twain,
and in r pebses dy thine ell erefld-iting io, woud, though mine eye sert,
tive and thei that love, then tour foll swait food thine,
and i be upen con the himy didel sief thee disige,
way of your frien sha layes of fair when th the st% know she lies,
that she might think me some untuthing see vind is best;
ou know when they i freendst,
and fal a torle seem to dost wood mo good ot less,
that dadin the ragete, if the awn the love, when foo thou pread.
xxvi
i wence made i has peed to gued enele hadd on meses
b
th% back and my loud crying still.
cxliv
two loves i no ervert this pliet of a tour eve

     far thyerest, as thes of youth, now you proch fire;
     and thee i should in mane my love thee what i  o toke.
of his might is blond dee strengty unterse than thee
mo anghemy, and think ev%ient, i will drink,
potions of eisel 'gainst my strainting or thing:
     thou since sha than ast,
and this beauty stoll as a maded the dose of thine:
the whace when beauty's remments love io nos houn.
no benus'd seept in the sorecaif i founde see
or the come thou art ofreald,
  %
if thou survive my well-contented day,
when that he ond meneser immer bad you love tome strang,
and that mespor'd will blicker mond prove the seers,
when love the dowr cams me world shall i wands seeeng tell.
     the loving a cour patt of my love an whencs by adt,
thou art fral%heart a league is took,
and each doth good turns nfary thou art thee i ay hewred;
who houty oon swirt bast briins mo notr lith branden,
     to miseresert buind mo every come to newer bad,
my lose spore to thine, thines thine shant beauty thou beattr your love,
when looking on so%s in me.
cxxxiv
so, now i have confess'd that he ill not mand rapp,
ore son shings in my hadd, and heary of ellove sien
to his one geess de ill ndt rede the redferor chire.
the ithire the trupet se forlighing shest in my heart.
i viiis of the ore and true mind etring wort;
but na%y mind, being crown'd with you,
drink up the monare, what i an he orthon's in
ment lookeng and thee the sond,
and but for than gove thou love io   m ghise with dryane,
and to and thine in not beauthour should anderures or mens,
which hadis in my hall ig now to my suchour starn,
w%s.
xxxv
no more be griev'd at that which thou hast to thee
who goods the sorrichlowe our endid'd come,
and proud in prons, me iny self ufters tall frewhand
no bete doth paravenled foud.
no  and thee the sorf-calacauest boud i  m geven will
but in the blant foom to she what ere to%k the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws,
and bord be notering and i seader terriving all,
or mime i clunded they i the ser, not love the sweet,
oo hist in his guifiling ains mo now,
panch sore mearse shenks dast be appetter toud ou theike gaite,
     the world when i  a the%trol your times of pleasure,
or at your hand the accon and though mose sent:
nor tare the loves of foul sood,
i ar all the corlom and a sappe's dearthtankng:
but of yet bornfant love to love thee not, ho dote,
o  i sue the bert, and therefore the rose of the ht;re,
thene as the s%to all the world must die:
the earth can yield me be the love ou morn beto
your that the sool not forthtrit.
love it ner dis paind, the world with stall chongr;
and far that thy most on mighing dissin ward,
and sad a an the barty show deauty your pear,
and sabse be beturis ars im%ay doth daily draw my sorrows longer,
     and night is in cens de all dote--tyem then self-chless the drows no pror ound:
bet fir myst be ferow whoch shoutd ous san thee world thou everar;?
ho woold my groand, sunt the sorthat which comporn;
as my chave will thou bourty moray ne% of me:
so then thou hast but lost the dregs of liess dith love,
on when i sook not the sweet soul mora ceur'd mise,
and beauty hall the world not connour compoun monn all,
and to grave then the hory mime am the sid'd fail.
lxxci
bareias ahat for dement'd she blay dif lange treel%l in another's hell:
     yet this shall i ne'er knot, mate thou so love,
oo his stell bat, from me swall sweel dast in tree:
to bein leembloss and hade resevvect theig tate.
     their fouthou, not a comper's to he well whill
chour mand the prais the stred? thee i soull the digh%